i
THE COMPETITION ACT, 2002
(12 OF 2003)
CONTENTS
Sections  Page
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1.  Short titles, extent and commencement  1
2.  Definitions  1
CHAPTER II
PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS, ABUSE OF
DOMINANT POSITION AND REGULATION OF COMBINATIONS
Prohibition of agreements
3.  Anti-competitive agreements  5
Prohibition of abuse of dominant position
4.  Abuse of dominant position  7
Regulation of combinations
5.  Combination  8
6.  Regulation of combinations  10
CHAPTER III
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA
7.  Establishment of Commission  12
8.  Composition of Commission  12
9.  Selection Committee for Chairperson and Members of Commission  13
10.  Term of office of Chairperson and other Members  13
11.  Resignation, removal and suspension of Chairperson  14
      and other members
12.  Restriction on employment of Chairperson and other  14
 Members in certain cases
13.  Administrative powers of Chairperson  15
14.  Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of  15
 service of Chairperson and other Members
15.  Vacancy, etc. not to invalidate proceedings of Commission  15
16.  Appointment of Director General, etc.  16
ii
17.  Appointment of Secretary, experts, professionals and  17
 officers and other employees of Commission
CHAPTER IV
DUTIES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF COMMISSION
18.  Duties of Commission  18
19.  Inquiry into certain agreements and dominant position of enterprise  18
20.  Inquiry into combination by commission  20
21.  Reference by statutory authority  21
21A.  Reference by Commission  22
22.  Meetings of Commission  22
23.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  23
24.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  23
25.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  23
26.  Procedure for inquiry under section 19 24
27.  Orders by Commission after inquiry onto agreements or abuse of  25
 dominant position
28.  Division of enterprise enjoying dominant position  27
29.  Procedure for investigation of combinations  27
30.  Procedure in case of notice under sub-section (2) of section 6  28
31.  Orders of Commission on certain combinations  29
32.  Acts taking place outside India but having an effect on  30
 competition in India
33.  Power to issue interim orders  31
34.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  32
35.  Appearance before Commission  32
36.  Power of Commission to regulate its own procedure  33
37.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  34
38.  Rectification of orders  35
39.  Execution of orders of Commission imposing monetary penalty  35
40.  [Omitted by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007]  36
CHAPTER V
DUTIES OF DIRECTOR GENERAL
41  Director General to investigate contraventions  37
iii
CHAPTER VI
PENALTIES
42.  Contravention of orders of Commission  38
42A.  Compensation in case of contravention of orders of Commission  38
43.  Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Commission  39
 and Director General
43A.  Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information  39
 on combinations
44.  Penalty for making false statement or omission to furnish  39
 material information
45.  Penalty for offence in relation to furnishing of information  40
46.  Power to impose lesser penalty  40
47.  Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated  41
 Fund of India
48.  Contravention by companies  41
CHAPTER VII
COMPETITION ADVOCACY
49.  Competition advocacy  42
CHAPTER VIII
FINANCE, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
50.  Grants by Central Government  43
51.  Constitution of Fund  43
52.  Accounts and Audit  43
53.  Furnishing of returns, etc. to Central Government  44
CHAPTER VIIIA
APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
53A.  Appellate Tribunal  45
53B.  Appeal to Appellate Tribunal  45
Omitted by the Finance Act, 2017, w.e.f. 26th May, 2017 46
53N.  Awarding compensation  46
53O.  Procedure and powers of Appellate Tribunal  47
53P.  Execution of orders of Appellate Tribunal  48
53Q.  Contravention of orders of Appellate Tribunal  48
53S.  Right to legal representation  48
iv
53T.  Appeal to Supreme Court  49
53U.  Power to Punish for contempt  49
CHAPTER IX
MISCELLANEOUS
54.  Power to exempt  50
55.  Power of Central Government to issue directions  50
56.  Power of Central government to supersede Commission  50
57.  Restriction on disclosure of information  51
58.  Chairperson, Members, Director General, Secretary,  52
 officers and other employees, etc., to be public servants.
59.  Protection of action taken in good faith  52
60.  Act to have overriding effect  52
61.  Exclusion of jurisdiction of civil courts  52
62.  Application of other laws not barred  53
63.  Power to make rules  53
64.  Power to make regulations  55
65.  Power to remove difficulties  56
66.  Repeal and saving  56
(1)
THE COMPETITION ACT, 20021
No. 12 OF 2003
[13th January, 2003.]
An Act to provide,  keeping in view of the  economic development of the  country,  for the 
establishment   of   a   Commission  to   prevent  practices  having   adverse  effect   on 
competition, to promote and  sustain  competition in markets, to protect  the  interests 
of consumers and  to ensure freedom of trade carried  on by other  participants in 
markets, in India, and  for matters connected therewith  or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic  of India as follows:—
CHAPTER  I
PRELIMINARY
Short title,  extent and commencement
1.   (1)  This Act may be called the Competition  Act, 2002.
 (2)  It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and  Kashmir.
 (3)  It  shall   come   into  force   on  such   date   as the   Central   Government  may,  
	 	 by	notification	in	the	Official	Gazette,	appoint:
Provided that different  dates may be appointed for different  provisions of this 
Act and  any reference in any  such  provision  to the  commencement of this 
Act shall be construed as a reference to the coming into force of that provision.
Definitions
2.  In this Act, unless the context  otherwise requires,—
 (a)  “acquisition”   means,  directly   or   indirectly,   acquiring    or   agreeing   to acquire—
  (i) shares, voting rights or assets of any enterprise;  or
  (ii) control over management or control over assets of any enterprise;
 (b)  “agreement”  includes  any   arrangement  or  understanding  or  action   in concert,—
  (i) whether  or  not,   such   arrangement,  understanding  or  action is  
   formal or in writing; or
  (ii) whether  or  not   such   arrangement,  understanding  or  action   is 
   intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings;
2[substituted	by	the	finance	act,	2017,	w.e.f.	26th	May,	2017.	Prior	to	its	substitution,	clause	(ba),	as	
inserted	by	the	competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007,	w.e.f.	12-10	-2007	read	as	under:
“(ba) Appellate Tribunal” means the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal referred to in  
sub-section	(1)	of	section	53A;]
1	The	following	Act	of	Parliament	received	the	assent	of	the	President	on	the	13th January, 2003
2	Substituted	by	the	Finance	Act,	2017,	w.e.f.	26th	May	2017.	
Prior	to	its	substitution,	clause	(ba),	as	inserted	by	the	competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007,	w.e.f.	
12-10	-2007	read	as	under:
“(ba)	Appellate	Tribunal”	means	the	Competition	Appellate	Tribunal	established	under	sub-section	
(1)	of	section	53A;]
(2)
 (c)  “cartel” includes an  association of producers, sellers, distributors, traders 
  or service providers who, by agreement amongst themselves, limit, control 
  or attempt to control  the production, distribution,  sale  or price  of,  or, trade 
   in goods or provision of services;
 (d) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Commission appointed under  
	 	 sub-section	(1)	of	section		9;
 (e) “Commission”   means the  Competition   Commission of  India  established  
	 	 under	sub-section(1)	of	section	7;
 (f) “consumer” means any person who—
  (i) buys   any   goods  for  a   consideration  which   has   been  paid   or 
   promised or partly paid and  partly promised, or under  any system of 
   deferred payment and includes any  user  of such  goods other  than  
   the   person  who   buys   such   goods   for   consideration  paid   or 
   promised or partly paid  or partly promised, or under  any  system 
   of deferred payment when  such  use  is made with the approval of 
   such  person, whether such  purchase of goods is  for resale or for  any  
   commercial purpose or for personal use;
  (ii) hires  or avails  of any  services for a consideration which has  been  
   paid  or  promised or partly paid  and  partly promised, or under  any 
	 	 	 system	 of	 deferred	 	 payment	 and	 	 includes	 any	 	 beneficiary	 of	 such 
   services other  than  the  person  who hires  or avails  of the  services 
   for consideration  paid   or  promised,  or   partly   paid   and   partly 
   promised, or  under  any  system of deferred payment,  when  such 
	 	 	 services		 are			 availed			 of		 with		 the		 approval		 of		 the		 first-mentioned 
   person  whether  such   hiring  or  availing  of  services  is  for  any 
   commercial purpose or for personal use;
 (g) “Director  General” means  the   Director   General  appointed  under  
	 	 sub-	 section	(1)		of		section	16		and		includes	any		Additional,		Joint,		Deputy 
  or Assistant Directors  General appointed under  that section;
 (h)  “enterprise” means a person or a department of the  Government,
who or which is, or has been, engaged in any  activity, relating  to the  produc-
tion, storage,  supply, distribution,  acquisition or control  of articles  or goods, 
or the  provision  of services, of any kind, or in investment, or in the  business 
of acquiring,  holding,  underwriting  or  dealing  with shares, debentures or 
other  securities of any other  body corporate, either directly or through  one 
or  more   of  its  units  or  divisions   or  subsidiaries, whether such  unit  or 
division or subsidiary is located at the  same place  where  the  enterprise is 
located  or at a different  place  or at different  places, but does not include any  
activity of the  Government relatable to the  sovereign functions  of the Gov-
ernment including  all  activities  carried  on  by the  departments of the Central  
Government dealing  with atomic  energy, currency, defence and space.
(3)
Explanation.-For	the	purposes	of	this	clause,—	
  (a) “activity” includes profession or occupation;
  (b)  “article” includes a new article and  “service”  includes a new  
    service;  
  (c) “unit” or “division”, in relation to an enterprise, includes
 (i) a  plant  or  factory  established for  the  production, storage, supply,  
  distribution,   acquisition or  control  of  any  article  or goods;
	 (ii)	 any	 	 branch	 	 or	 	 office	 	 established	 for	 	 the	 	 provision	 	 	of	 	 any	 
  service;
		 (i)	 “goods”	 means	 goods	 as	 defined	 	in	 the	 	Sale	 	of	 Goods	Act,	 1930	 	(8	 of 
	 	 1930)	and		includes—
  (A) products manufactured, processed or mined; 
  (B)  debentures, stocks and  shares after allotment;
  (C)  in  relation   to  goods  supplied, distributed   or  controlled   in India,  
   goods imported  into India;
 (j) “Member”  means a  Member   of  the  Commission appointed  under  
	 	 sub-	section	(1)	of	section	9	and		includes	the	Chairperson;
	 (k)	 “notification”	means	a	notification	published	in	the	Official	Gazette;	
 (l) “person” includes—
  (i) an individual;
  (ii) a Hindu undivided  family; 
  (iii) a company;
	 	 (iv)	 a	firm;
  (v) an   association  of  persons  or   a   body   of  individuals, whether  
   incorporated or not, in India or outside India; 
	 	 (vi)	 any			 corporation	established	by	or	under	any	Central,	State	or	Provincial 
	 	 	 Act	 or	 a	 Government	 company	 as	 defined	 in	 section	 617	 of 
	 	 	 the	Companies		 Act,	1956		(1	of	1956);
  (vii)  any body corporate incorporated by or under  the  laws of a 
   country outside India;
	 	 (viii) 		 a	co-operative	society	registered	under	any	law	relating	to	co-operative	societies;
  (ix) a local authority;
	 	 (x)	 every	 artificial	 juridical	 person,	 not	 falling	 within	 any	 of	 the	 preceding	 
	 	 	 sub-clauses;
 (m)   “practice” includes any practice relating to the carrying on of any trade 
  by a person or an enterprise;
 (n)  “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under  this Act;
 (o)  “price”, in relation  to the  sale  of any  goods or to the  performance of any 
  services, includes every  valuable consideration, whether direct or  
  indirect, or deferred, and  includes any  consideration which in effect  relates to the 
  sale   of  any   goods  or  to  the   performance  of  any   services  although  
  ostensibly relating to any other  matter  or thing;
(4)
	 (p)		 “public		 financial		 institution”	means	a		 public		 financial		 institution		 specified 
	 	 under		 section	4A	of	the		Companies	Act,	1956		(1	of	1956)		and		includes	a 
  State Financial,  Industrial or Investment Corporation;
 (q)  “regulations” means  the   regulations   made  by  the   Commission  under  
	 	 section	62;
 (r) “relevant   market”  means the  market   which  may  be  determined by  the 
  commission with reference to the  relevant  product  market  or the  relevant  
  geographic market  or with reference to both the markets;
 (s)  “relevant   geographic  market”   means a  market   comprising  the  area 
  in which  the  conditions of competition for supply  of goods or  provision  of 
  services or demand of  goods or services are  distinctly homogenous and  
  can   be  distinguished from  the  conditions prevailing  in the  neighbouring  
  areas;
 (t) “relevant  product  market”  means a market  comprising all those products 
  or services which are  regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the 
  consumer, by reason of characteristics of the  products or services, their 
  prices  and intended use;
 (u)  “service”  means  service of  any  description   which  is  made  available to
potential  users  and  includes the  provision  of services in connection with 
business  of  any   industrial   or   commercial  matters  such   as  banking,  
communication,		education,		financing,		insurance,	chit		funds,			 real		estate,	
transport, storage, material  treatment, processing,  supply  of electrical  or 
other  energy, boarding, lodging,  entertainment, amusement, construction, 
repair, conveying of news  or information and  advertising;
 (v) “shares” means shares in the  share capital  of a  company carrying  
  voting rights and includes—
  (i) any  security  which entitles  the  holder  to receive shares with 
   voting rights;
  (ii) stock   except  where   a   distinction   between  stock   and   share  is  
   expressed or implied;
 (w) “statutory   authority”   means  any   authority,   board,  corporation,  council,  
  institute,  university  or any  other  body  corporate, established by or under  
	 	 any			 Central,			 State		or			 Provincial			Act		for		the			 purposes		of		regulating 
  production or  supply  of  goods  or  provision  of  any  services or  markets 
  therefor  or any matter  connected therewith  or incidental  thereto;
 (x) “trade”  means any  trade,   business, industry,   profession  or  occupation  
  relating  to the production, supply,  distribution,  storage or control  of goods  
  and  includes the provision of any services;
 (y) “turnover” includes value  of sale  of goods or services;
	 (z)		 words		 and		expressions	used	but	not	defined		in	this	Act	and		defined		in	the 
	 	 Companies			 Act,		1956			(1			of		1956)			shall			have			the			same			meanings 
  respectively assigned to them  in that Act.
(5)
CHAPTER  II
PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS, ABUSE OF DOMINANT 
POSITION AND REGULATION OF COMBINATIONS
Prohibition of agreements
Anti-competitive agreements
3.  (1)  No enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of 
  persons shall  enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply,  
  distribution,  storage, acquisition or control  of goods or provision  of 
  services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on  
  competition within India.
 (2)   Any agreement entered into in contravention of the provisions contained  
  in subsection (1) shall be void.
 (3)  Any agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of  
enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between any  person and  
enterprise or practice  carried   on,  or  decision  taken   by,  any   association  
of  enterprises  or association of persons, including  cartels, engaged in identi-
cal  or similar trade  of goods or provision of services, which—
  (a)  directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale  prices;
  (b)  limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development,  
   investment or provision of services;
  (c)  shares the market or source of production or provision of services by  
   way of allocation  of geographical area of market, or type of goods or 
   services, or number of customers in the market or any other similar  
   way;
  (d)  directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive  bidding,
shall be presumed to have  an appreciable adverse effect on competi-
tion:	
Provided	that		nothing	contained	in	this	sub-section	shall		apply		to	any	 	
agreement entered into by way  of joint ventures if  such  agreement 
increases	 efficiency	 	 in	 production,	 	 	 supply,	 	 	distribution,	 	 	 storage,	 
acquisition or  control   of  goods  or provision of services.
Explanation.—For	the		purposes		of		this		sub-section,		“bid		rigging”		means	any	agree-
ment,			between		enterprises		or		persons		referred		to		in		sub-section		(3)	engaged	in	 	
identical  or  similar  production or  trading  of  goods or  provision  of services, which 
has  the  effect  of  eliminating  or reducing competition for bids  or adversely affecting 
or manipulating the process for bidding
  (4)  Any agreement amongst enterprises or persons at different  stages or levels 
of the   production   chain   in  different   markets,  in  respect  of  production,  
supply, distribution,  storage, sale  or  price  of, or trade  in goods or provision  
of services, including—
(6)
 (a)		 tie-in	arrangement;
 (b)  exclusive supply agreement;
 (c)  exclusive distribution agreement;  
 (d)  refusal  to deal;
 (e)  resale price maintenance,
shall		be		an		agreement	in	contravention		of	sub-section	(1)	if		such		agreement	causes	
or is  likely to cause an  appreciable adverse effect  on  competition in India.
Explanation.—For	the	purposes	of	this	sub-section,—
	 (a)		 “tie-in		 arrangement”		includes		any			 agreement		requiring			 a		purchaser		of 
  goods, as a condition  of such  purchase, to purchase some other  goods;
 (b)  “exclusive  supply  agreement” includes any  agreement restricting  in any 
  manner  the   purchaser  in  the   course  of  his  trade   from  acquiring   or  
  otherwise dealing  in any goods other  than  those of the seller  or any  other  
  person;
 (c)  “exclusive  distribution  agreement” includes any agreement to limit, restrict 
  or withhold  the  output  or  supply  of  any  goods or  allocate any  area or 
  market  for the disposal or sale  of the goods;
 (d)  “refusal  to  deal”  includes any  agreement which  restricts, or  is  likely to  
  restrict,  by any method the persons or classes of persons to whom goods  
  are sold or from whom goods are  bought;
 (e)  “resale  price   maintenance”  includes  any   agreement  to  sell  goods  on
condition  that  the  prices  to  be  charged on  the  resale by  the  purchaser 
shall  be  the  prices  stipulated  by the  seller  unless it is clearly  stated that 
prices lower than  those prices  may be charged.
(5)		Nothing	contained	in	this	section	shall	restrict—
 (i) the  right  of  any  person  to  restrain  any  infringement  of,  or  to  impose
reasonable  conditions, as  may  be  necessary for  protecting  any  of  his 
rights which have  been or may be conferred upon  him under—
	 	 (a)		 the	Copyright	 Act,	1957		(14	of	1957);
	 	 (b)		 the	Patents	 Act,	1970		(39	of	1970);
	 	 (c)		 the		 Trade	 	and	 	Merchandise	Marks		 Act,	1958	 	(43		 of	1958)	 	or	the 
	 	 	 Trade		Marks	 Act,	1999		(47	of	1999);
	 	 (d)		 the	 Geographical	 Indications	 of	 Goods	 (Registration	 and	 Protection) 
	 	 	 Act,	1999		(48	of	1999);	
	 	 (e)		 the	Designs	 Act,	2000		(16	of	2000);
	 	 (f)	 the		Semi-conductor	Integrated		Circuits		Layout-Design		 Act,		2000	(37		
   of 2000);
 (ii) the  right of any  person to export  goods from India to the  extent  to which  
  the agreement relates exclusively  to the  production, supply,  distribution  or 
  control of goods or provision of services for such export.
(7)
Prohibition of abuse of dominant position
Abuse of dominant position
4.  3[(1) No enterprise or group shall abuse its dominant position.]
 (2)  There   shall  be  an  abuse of  dominant  position   4	[under		sub-section	(1),			
	 	 if		an	enterprise	or	a	group].—-
  (a)  directly or indirectly, imposes unfair or discriminatory—
   (i) condition  in purchase or sale  of goods or service; or
   (ii) price  in purchase or  sale  (including  predatory price)  of goods or  
    service.
Explanation.— For  the   purposes  of  this  clause,  the   unfair  or  discriminatory con-
dition		in	purchase	or	sale		of	goods	or	service	referred	to	in	sub-clause	(i)	and	unfair	 	
or discriminatory  price  in purchase or sale  of goods (including  predatory price) or 
service	referred	to	in	sub-clause	(ii)	shall	not	include		such		discriminatory		condition		or	
price which may be adopted to meet  the competition; or
  (b)  limits or restricts—
   (i) production of goods or provision of services or market  therefor;  or 
	 	 	 (ii)	 technical	or	scientific	development	relating		to	goods	or	services	to		
    the prejudice of consumers; or
  (c)  indulges in practice or practices resulting  in denial  of market  access  
   5[in any manner]; or
  (d)  makes conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by other   
   parties of supplementary obligations which, by  their nature or  
   according to commercial usage, have no connection with the subject of  
   such contracts; or
  (e)  uses its dominant position  in one  relevant market  to enter  into, or protect, 
   other  relevant market.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression—
 (a) “dominant  position” means a position  of strength, enjoyed by an enterprise,  
  in the relevant market, in India, which enables it to—
  (i) operate  independently of  competitive  forces   prevailing   in  the 
   relevant market;  or
  (ii) affect its competitors or consumers or the relevant  market  in its favour.
 (b)  “predatory price”  means the  sale  of goods or provision  of services, at  a.
price which is below  the  cost,  as may  be  determined by regulations, of 
production of the goods or provision  of services, with a view to reduce com-
petition or eliminate the competitors.
3			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“No	enterprise	shall	abuse	its	dominant		 	
 position.”
4 		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“under	sub-section	(1),	if	an	enterprise”
5			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
(8)
6[(c)“group” shall  have  the  same meaning as assigned to  it in  clause (b)  of the 
Explanation	to	section	5.]
Regulation of combinations
Combination
5.		 The	 acquisition	of	one		 or	more		 enterprises	by	one		 or	more		 persons	or	merger 
 or amalgamation  of  enterprises  shall  be  a  combination of  such   enterprises  
 and persons or enterprises, if—
 (a)  any acquisition where—
  (i) the parties to the acquisition, being  the acquirer and  the enterprise, whose 
   control, shares, voting rights  or assets have  been acquired or are  being 
   acquired jointly have,—
   (A)  either, in India, the assets of the value of more than rupees one 
    thousand  crores  or  turnover   more   than   rupees  three  thousand 
    crores; or 
   (B) 7[in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more 
	 	 	 	 than	 five	hundred	million	US	dollars,		 including	at	least	rupees	five 
	 	 	 	 hundred		 crores	in		India,		or		turnover			more		than	fifteen		hundred 
	 	 	 	 million	 US	dollars,	including	at	least	rupees	fifteen	hundred	crores	in	 
    India; or]
  (ii) the  group,  to which the  enterprise whose control,  shares, assets or 
   voting  rights  have   been  acquired or  are   being   acquired,  would belong 
   after the acquisition, jointly have  or would jointly have,—
   (A) either in India, the assets of the value  of more  than  rupees four thou 
    sand crores or  turnover more than rupees twelve thousand crores;  
    or
   (B)  8[in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more 
		 than	two	billion	US	dollars,		including		at	least		rupees	five	hundred		
		 crores	 	 in	 	India,	 	or	 turnover	 	more	 	than	 	six	 billion	 US	 dollars, 
		 including		at	least	rupees	fifteen	hundred	crores	in	India;	or]
 (b)  acquiring  of control by a person over an enterprise when  such  person has 
already  direct   or  indirect   control   over   another  enterprise engaged  in 
production, distribution  or  trading  of a similar or identical  or substitutable 
goods or provision of a similar or identical or substitutable service, if—
6			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
7			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
	 “		in	India	or	outside	India,	in	aggregate,	the	assets	of	the	value	of	more	than	five	hundred		
	 million	US	dollars	or	turnover	more	than	fifteen	hundred	million	US	dollars;	or”
8	 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
 “   in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more than two billion US  
 dollars or turnover more than six billion US dollars; or”
(9)
  (i) the  enterprise over  which control has  been acquired along  with the 
   enterprise  over  which  the  acquirer already has   direct  or  indirect  
   control jointly have,—
   (A)  either  in India, the assets of the value  of more than  rupees one thousand 
    crores or turnover  more  than  rupees three  thousand crores; 
    or
   (B)  9[in India  or  outside India,  in  aggregate, the  assets of  the value  of  
	 	 	 	 more	 than		five	hundred	million	US	dollars,		including	at	least		rupees 
	 	 	 	 five	 	 hundred	crores	in	 	India,	 	or	 	turnover	 	 	more	than	 	 	fifteen	 	hundred 
	 	 	 	 million			 US		dollars,		including			at		least		rupees	fifteen	hundred	crores 
    in India; or]
  (ii) the group,  to which enterprise whose control has  been acquired, or is  
   being acquired, would belong  after the acquisition, jointly have  or would  
   jointly have,—
   (A)  either  in India, the assets of the value  of more  than  rupees four thou 
    sand crores or turnover  more  than  rupees twelve thousand  
    crores or
   (B)  10[in India  or  outside India,  in  aggregate, the  assets of  the value  
	 	 	 	 of		 more	than		two		billion	US		dollars,		including		at		least	rupees	five 
	 	 	 	 hundred	 crores	in	India,		or	turnover		more		than		six	billion	US		dollars, 
	 	 	 	 including		at		least	rupees	fifteen		hundred	crores	in	India;	or]
 (c)  any merger or amalgamation in which—
  (i) the enterprise remaining after merger  or the enterprise created as a result 
   of the amalgamation, as the case may be, have,—
   (A)  either  in India,  the  assets of the  value  of more  than  rupees one 
    thou sand   crores  or  turnover   more   than   rupees  three  thousand 
    crores; or
   (B)  
11[in India  or  outside India,  in  aggregate, the  assets of  the value  of 
	 	 	 	 more		 than		five	hundred	million	US	dollars,		including	at	least		rupees 
	 	 	 	 five	 	 hundred	crores	in	 	India,	 	or	 	turnover	 	 	more	than	 	 	fifteen	 	hundred 
	 	 	 	 million			 US		 dollars,			 including			 at		 least		 rupees	fifteen	hundred	 
    crores in India; or]
9			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for
	 “	 	 	 in	 India	 or	 outside	 India,	 in	 aggregate,	 the	 assets	 of	 the	 value	 of	 more	 than	 five	 hundred 
	 million	US	dollars	or	turnover	more	than	fifteen	hundred	million	US	dollars;	or”
10 		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for
 “  in India or outside India, in aggregate, the assets of the value of more than two billion US  
 dollars or turnover more than six billion US dollars; or”
11			Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for
	 “			in	India	or	outside	India,	in	aggregate,	the	assets	of	the	value	of	more	than	five	hundred		
	 million	US	dollars	or	turnover	more	than	fifteen	hundred	million	US	dollars;	or”
(10)
 (ii) the group,  to which the enterprise remaining after the merger or the enter 
  prise  created as a  result  of the  amalgamation, would  belong  after the 
  merger or the amalgamation, as the case may be,  have  or would have,—
	 	 (A)		 either		 in	India,		the		assets	of	the		value		of	more		than		rupees	four-thou 
   sand crores  or  turnover   more   than   rupees  twelve thousand  
   crores; or
  (B) 12 [in India  or  outside India,  in  aggregate, the  assets of  the value  of  
	 	 	 more	 	 than	 	 two	 	 billion	 US	 	 dollars,	 	 including	 	 at	 	 least	 rupees	 five 
	 	 	 hundred	crores	in	India,		or	turnover		more		than		six	billion	US		dollars,
   including at least rupees Fifteen Hundred Crores in India  
Explanation.— For the purposes of this section,—
 (a)  “control” includes controlling the affairs or management by—
  (i) one or more  enterprises, either  jointly or singly, over another 
   enterprise or group;
  (ii) one   or  more   groups,  either   jointly  or  singly,   over   another  group 
   or enterprise;
 (b)  “group”  means two  or  more  enterprises which,  directly  or  indirectly,  are 
  in a position  to —
	 	 (i)	 exercise	 twenty-six			 per		 cent			 or		 more		 of		 the		 voting		 rights		 in		 the 
   other enterprise; or
	 	 (ii)	 appoint	 	 more	 	than	 	fifty	 per	 	cent	 	of	 the	 	members	 of	 the	 	board	 of 
   directors in the other enterprise; or
  (iii) control the management or affairs of the other enterprise;
 (c)  the value  of assets shall be determined by taking the book value  of the 
assets as shown,  in the  audited books  of account of the  enterprise, in the  
financial		year	immediately		preceding	the		financial		year		in	which	the		date	 	
of proposed merger falls, as reduced by any  depreciation, and  the  value  
of assets shall  include  the brand   value,   value   of  goodwill,  or  value   
of  copyright,  patent, permitted use, collective   mark,   registered  propri -
etor,   registered  trade   mark,  registered  user, homonymous geographical  
indication,		geographical	indications,	design	or	layout-	design	or	similar	other	 	
commercial	rights,		if	any,		referred	to	in	sub-section	(5)	of	section	3.
Regulation of combinations
6.  (1)  No person or enterprise shall enter  into a combination which causes or is 
  likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition  within the  
  relevant market  in India and  such  a combination shall be void.
12			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “in India or outside India, the assets of the value of more than two billion US dollars or turn 
 over more than six billion US dollars
(11)
 (2)  Subject to the  provisions contained in sub-section (1), any  person or  
 
 enterprise, who  or which  proposes 
to enter  into a  combination, 13 [shall] 
	 	 give
		notice
		to
	the
	Commission,
		in
		the
			form
		as
		may
			be
			specified,
		and
 
 
 the   fee  
 which  may   be determined, by regulations, disclosing  the  details  
 
 of the  proposed combination, within14 [thirty days]  of—
 
 (a)  approval 
of the proposal relating  to merger or amalgamation, referred 
 
  to in clause  (c)  of  section  5,  by  the   board   of  directors  of  the
 
 
  enterprises concerned with such  merger or amalgamation, as the case 
 
   
may be;
 
 (b) 
 execution of 
any  agreement or other  document for acquisition referred 
 
   to in clause (a) of section 5 or acquiring  of control referred to in clause 
 
   (b) of that section.
15[(2A)No combination shall  come  into effect  until two hundred and  ten  days  have  
passed  from  the  day  on  which  the  notice  has  been given  to  the  Commission 
under  sub-section(2) or the  Commission has  passed orders under  section 31, which-
ever is earlier.]
 (3)  The  Commission 
shall,  after  receipt  of notice  under  sub-section (2), deal  
 
 with such  notice  in  accordance 
with the  provisions contained in sections  
 
 29,  30 and 31.
 (4)  The  provisions 
 of this section shall not apply  to share subscription or 
	 	 financing
	 facility
	 or
	 	 any
	 	 acquisition,
	 by
	 	 a
	 	 public
	 	 financial
	 	 institution,
	 
 
 foreign institutional investor
,   bank   or  venture  capital  fund,  pursuant  to 
 
 any covenant  of  a  loan agreement or investment agreement.
	
(5)
		
	 The
		 public
		 financial
		 institution,
		 foreign
		 institutional
			 investor
,
			 bank
			 or
 
 
 venture 
capital  fund, referred to in sub-section (4), shall,  within seven days 
	 	 from
	the
	date
		 of
	the
		 acquisition,
	file,
	in
	the
		 form
	as
	may
		 be
		 specified
	by
 
 
 regulations, 
with the Commission the  details   of  the  acquisition  including  
 
 the  details   of  control,  the circumstances for  exercise of  such   control
 
 
 and the  
consequences of  default arising out of such  loan  agreement or 
 
 investment agreement, as the  case may be.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression—
 (a)  “foreign institutional  
investor”  has  the  same meaning as assigned to it 
 
 in 
clause (a) of the Explanation  to section 115AD of the Income-tax Act, 
 
 1961(43 
 of 1961);
 (b)  “venture  capital  fund” has  the same meaning 
as assigned to it in clause 
 
 (b) 
of the Explanation to clause (23  FB) of section 10  of the  Income-tax  
 
 Act, 1961(43 of 1961);.
13  Subs. by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 for “may, at his or its option”
14  Subs. by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 for “seven days”. 
Vide
	notification
	no.
	SO
	2039(E),
	dated
	29th
	June,
	2017
	exemption
	has
	been
	given
	to
	person
	or
	
enterprise(s) who is a party to combination from giving notice within 30 days.
15  Ins. by Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007
(12)
CHAPTER  III 
COMPETITION COMMISSION OF INDIA
Establishment of Commission
7.   (1)   With  effect  from  such   date   as the  Central   Government may,  by 
	 	 notification,	 appoint,		there	shall	be	established,	for	the	purposes	of	this	Act, 
  a Commission to be called the “Competition Commission of India”.
 (2) The   Commission  shall   be   a  body   corporate  by  the   name  aforesaid  
  having perpetual succession and  a common seal  with power,  subject to 
  the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and  dispose of property,  both 
  movable  and  immovable, and  to contract and  shall, by the said name, sue   
  or be sued.
	 (3)			 The		 head		 office		 of		the		 Commission		 shall			 be			 at		such			 place			 as	the 
  Government may decide from time to time.
	 (4)		 The	Commission	may	establish	offices	at	other		places	in	India.
Composition of Commission
16[8.(1) The  Commission shall  consist of a Chairperson and  not less  than  two and 
  not more than  six other  Members to be appointed by the Central  
  Government.
 (2)  The  Chairperson and  every  other  Member  shall  be  a person of ability, 
  integrity and   standing   and   who   has   special  knowledge  of,  and   such 
	 	 professional	 experience		 of		 not		 less			 than		 fifteen		 years		 in,		 international	 
	 	 trade,	 	 economics,	 business,	 commerce,	 law,	 	 finance,	 	 accountancy, 
  management, industry,  public affairs  or competition matters, including  
  competition law and  policy, which in the opinion of the Central  Government,  
  may be useful  to the Commission.
	 (3)		 The	Chairperson	and		other		Members	shall	be	whole-time		Members.]
16		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	;
 (1)  The Commission shall consist of a Chairperson and not less than two and not more  
	 	 than	ten	other	Members	to	be	appointed	by	the	Central	Government:
	 	 Provided	 that	 the	 Central	 Government	 shall	 appoint	 the	 Chairperson	 and	 a	 Member 
	 	 during	the	first	year	of	the	establishment	of	the	Commission.
 (2)  The Chairperson and every other Member shall be a person of ability, integrity and
 
	 	 standing	 and	who	has	been,	or	is	qualified	to	be	a	judge	of	a	High	Court,	or,	has	special 
	 	 knowledge	 of,	 and	 professional	 experience	 of	 not	 less	 than	 fifteen	 years	 in	 international 
	 	 trade,	 economics,	 business,	 commerce,	 law,	 finance,	 accountancy,	 management,	 
  industry, public affairs, administration or in any other matter which, in the opinion of the  
  Central Government may be useful to the Commission.
	 (3)			 The	Chairperson	and	other	Members	shall	be	whole-time	Members.”
(13)
17[Selection Committee for Chairperson and Members of Commission]
18[9.	 (1)	 The	 Chairperson	 and	 	 other	 	 Members	 of	 the	 	 Commission	 shall	 	 be 
  appointed by the  Central  Government from a  panel  of names 
  recommended by a  Selection Committee consisting of –
	 	 a)	 the	Chief	Justice	of	India	or	his	nominee	 							-	 Chairperson
	 	 b)	 the	Secretary	in	the	Ministry	of	Corporate	 Affairs	 							-	 Member
	 	 c)	 the	Secretary	in	the	Ministry	of	Law	and		Justice	 							-	 Member
d) two experts of repute who have  special 
knowledge of, and professional experience 
in international trade, economics, business, 
commerce,	 law,	 finance,	 accountancy,	
management, industry, public affairs or   
competition matters  including competition law 
and  policy   
 (2)  The  term  of the  Selection Committee and  the  manner of selection of 
  panel  of names shall be such  as may be prescribed.]
Term  of office of Chairperson and other Members
10. (1)		 The		 Chairperson	and		 every		 other		 Member		 shall		 hold	office	as	such		 for 
	 	 a	 term		of	five	years	from	the		date		on	which	he		enters	upon		his	office	and 
	 	 shall		be		eligible	for	re-appointment:
  
19[Provided	that		the		Chairperson	or	other		Members	shall		not	hold	office	as		
	 	 such		after	he	has	attained	the	age		of	sixty-five	years]
 (2)  A vacancy caused by the resignation or removal  of the Chairperson or any 
	 	 other	 Member			under		section		11		or		by		death		or		otherwise		shall	be		filled	 
	 	 by		fresh	appointment	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	sections	9.
 (3)  The  Chairperson and  every  other  Member  shall,  before  entering upon  
	 	 his	 office,	make		 and	subscribe	to	an	oath		 of	office	and		 of	secrecy	in	such 
  form, manner and before  such  authority,  as may be prescribed.
	 (4)		 In	 the	 	 event	 	 of	 the	 	 occurrence	 of	 a	 vacancy	 in	 the	 	 office	 of	 the	 
	 	 Chairperson	 by	 reason	 of	 his	 death,	 resignation	 or	 otherwise,	 the	 	 senior- 
  most Member  shall  act as the  Chairperson, until the  date   on  which  a 
  new Chairperson, appointed in accordance with the  provisions of this Act to  
	 	 fill	such		vacancy,	enters	upon		his	office.
17			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Selection	of	Chairperson	and	other		 	
 Members”
18		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
 “The Chairperson and other Members shall be selected in the manner as may be prescribed.”
19			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “Provided	that	no	Chairperson	or	other	Member	shall	hold	office	as	such	after	he	has	attained-		
	 (a)			in	the	case	of	the	Chairperson,	the	age	of	sixty-seven	years;
	 (b)		 in	the	case	of	any	other	Member,	the	age	of	sixty-five	years.”
(14)
	 (5)		 When	 	 the	 	 Chairperson	 is	 unable	 to	 discharge	 his	 	 functions	 	 owing	 	 to 
	 	 absence,	 illness	 	 or	 any	 other	 	 cause,	 the	 senior-most	 Member	 	 shall	 
  discharge the functions  of the  Chairperson until the date  on which the 
  Chairperson resumes the  charge of his functions.
Resignation, removal and suspension of Chairperson and other members
11. (1)   The  Chairperson or any  other  Member  may,  by notice  in writing under  
	 	 his	hand		addressed	to	the	Central		Government,	resign		his	office:
  Provided that  the  Chairperson or a  Member  shall,  unless he  is permitted 
	 	 by	 the	Central		 Government	to	relinquish		 his	office	sooner,	continue	to	hold 
	 	 office	 until	the		expiry		of		three		months	from		the		date			of		receipt			of		such 
  notice  or  until  a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon  his  
	 	 office	or	until	the		expiry	of	his	term	of	office,	whichever	is	the	earliest.
	 (2)		 Not	 with	 standing	 anything	 	 contained	 in	 sub-section	 (1),	 the	 	 Central 
  Government may, by order,  remove the  Chairperson or any  other  Member 
	 	 from	his	office	if	such		Chairperson	or	Member,		as	the	case	may	be,—
  (a)  is, or at any time has  been, adjudged as an insolvent;  or
	 	 (b)		 has				 engaged		at			any			time,			during			his		term			of			office,			in			any 
   paid employment; or
  (c)  has   been  convicted of  an  offence   which,  in  the  opinion  of  the   
   Central Government, involves moral turpitude;  or
	 	 (d)		 has				 acquired		 such			 financial			 or			 other			 interest	as		 is			 likely		 to 
   affect prejudicially his functions  as a Member;  or
  (e)  has   so   abused  his   position   as  to  render  his   continuance  in  
	 	 	 office	prejudicial	to	the	public	interest;	or
  (f) has  become physically or mentally incapable of acting  as a Member.
	 (3)			 Not	 with	standing		anything			contained		in		sub-section		(2),		no		Member			shall
be	removed	from	his	office	on	the	ground		specified	in	clause	(d)	or	clause	(e)	
of that subsection unless the  Supreme Court,  on  a  reference being  made 
to it in this behalf  by the  Central  Government,  has,  on an  inquiry, held  by 
it in accordance with such  procedure as may  be  prescribed in this behalf  
by the  Supreme Court, reported that the Member,  ought on such  ground  or 
grounds to be removed.
Restriction on employment of Chairperson and other Members in certain cases
12.  The  Chairperson and  other  Members shall  not, for a period  of 
20 [two 
	 years]	 from	 the	 	 date	 	 	 on	 	 which	 	 they	 	 cease	 to	 	 hold	 	 office,	 	 accept	 any 
 employment  in,  or connected with the  management or administration of, any 
 enterprise which has  been a party to a proceeding before the Commission under  
	 this	 Act:
20 	Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“one	year”
(15)
Provided that  nothing  contained in this  section shall  apply  to any  employment under  
the Central  Government or a State Government or local authority or in any statutory 
authority		or	any	corporation		established	by	or	under		any		Central,		State	or		Provincial	 	
Act	or		 a		 Government		 company	as	defined		 in	section		 617		 of	the	Companies	Act,	
1956		(1	of	1956).
21[Administrative powers of Chairperson]
22[13.    The  Chairperson shall  have  the  powers of general superintendence,  
   direction and  control in respect of all administrative matters of the  
	 	 	 Commission:
   Provided that  the  Chairperson  may  delegate  such   of  his  powers  relating 
	 	 	 to	 administrative		matters	of		the		Commission,	as		he		may		think		fit,	to		any	 
	 	 	 other	Member		or	officer	of	the	Commission.”]
Salary and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of Chairperson 
and other Members
14. (1)  The salary,  and  the other  terms  and  conditions of service, of the 
   Chairperson and other    Members,   including   travelling   expenses,  house  
   rent  allowance  and conveyance facilities,  sumptuary  allowance and 
   medical  facilities  shall  be  such  as may be prescribed.
 (2)  The   salary,   allowances  and   other   terms   and   conditions  of  service   
   of  the Chairperson   or   a  Member    shall   not   be   varied   to   his   dis 
   advantage  after appointment.
Vacancy, etc.  not  to invalidate proceedings of Commission
15.  No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalid merely  by reason of—  
 (a)  any vacancy in, or any defect  in the constitution of, the Commission; or
 (b)  any defect  in the appointment of a person acting  as a Chairperson or as a
   Member; or
 (c)  any  irregularity  in  the  procedure  of  the  Commission  not  affecting   the  
   merits  of the case.
21			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “Financial	 and	 administrative	 powers	 of 
 Member Administration”
22			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “The Central Government shall designate any Member as Member Administration who shall  
	 exercise	such		financial	and	administrative	powers	as	may	be	vested	in	him	under	the	rules		
	 made	by	the	Central	Government:
	 Provided	 that	the	Member	Administration	shall	have	authority	to	delegate	such	of	his	financial
 
	 and	 administrative	powers	as	he	may	think	fit	to	any	other	officer	of	the	Commission	subject	to 
	 the	 condition	 that	 such	 officer	 shall,	 while	 exercising	 such	 delegated	 powers	 continue 
 to act under the direction, superintendence and control of the Member Administration.”
(16)
Appointment of Director General, etc.
16.		23	[(1)	 The	 Central	Government	may,	by	notification,	appoint	a	Director		 General 
    for the purposes of assisting the  Commission in  conducting inquiry into  
    contravention of any  of the  provisions of this Act and  for performing such   
    other functions  as are, or may be, provided  by or under  this Act.
 (1A) The  number of other  Additional, Joint,  Deputy  or Assistant Directors
General	 or	 such	 	 officers	 or	 other	 	 employees	 in	 the	 office	 of	 Director 
General and  the manner of appointment of such Additional, Joint, Deputy or 
Assistant	Directors		General	or	such		officers	or	other		employees	shall	be	
such  as may be prescribed.”]
 (2)   Every   Additional,   Joint,   Deputy   and   Assistant  Directors   General  or
24[such	officers			or			other		employees,]		shall			exercise		his		powers,		and 
discharge  his functions,  subject to the general control,  supervision and 
direction  of the Director General.
 (3)   The  salary,  allowances and  other  terms  and  conditions of service of the
Director General and Additional, Joint, Deputy  and  Assistant Directors 
General or, 
25	[such		officers	or	other	employees,]	shall	be	such		as	may	be	
prescribed.
 (4)   The  Director  General  and  Additional, Joint,  Deputy  and  Assistant
Directors  General or 26[such	 officers	 or	 other	 	 employees,]	 shall	 be 
appointed from amongst persons  of  integrity   and   outstanding  
ability and   who   have   experience  in investigation,  and   knowledge  of  
accountancy, management,  business,  public administration,  
international	trade,	law	or	economics	and	such	other	qualifications	as	may	be	 
prescribed.
23 		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	:
	 “	 	 	 The	 Central	 Government	 may,	 by	 notification,	 appoint	 a	 Director	 General	 and	 as	 many 
 Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General or such other advisers, consultants or  
	 officers,	 as	it	may	think	fit,	for		the	purposes	of	assisting	the	Commission	in	conducting	inquiry 
 into contravention of any of the provisions of this Act and for the conduct of cases before the  
 Commission and for performing such other functions as are, or may be, provided by or under  
 this Act”
24			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “such	 other	 advisers,	 consultants	 and	 
	 officers,”
25			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “such	 other	 advisers,	 consultants	 and	 
	 officers,”
26			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “such	 other	 advisers,	 consultants	 and 
	 officers,”
(17)
27[Appointment   of   Secretary, experts,  professionals   and  officers  and  other 
employees of Commission]
28[17.	 (1)	 The	 	 	 Commission	 	may	 	 	appoint	 	 	a	 	 	Secretary	 	and	 	 	such	 	 	officers 
	 	 	 	 and	 	 	 other	 employees	 as	 it	 considers	 necessary	 for	 the	 efficient 
    performance of its functions  under  this Act.
  (2)  The  salaries and   allowances  payable  to  and   other   terms   and  
	 	 	 	 conditions	 	 of	 service	 of	 the	 	 Secretary	 	 and	 	 officers	 	 and	 	 other 
	 	 	 	 employees	 of	 the	 	Commission	 and	 	the	 	number	 of	 such	 	officers	 	and 
    other employees shall  be  such  as may  be prescribed.
  (3)  The  Commission may  engage, in accordance with the  procedure  
	 	 	 	 specified	 by	 regulations,	 such	 number	 of	 experts	 and	 	 professionals	 of 
    integrity and outstanding   ability,   who   have    special   knowledge   of, 
    and  experience  in, economics,  law,  business or such  other  disciplines  
    related to competition, as it deems necessary to  assist  the  Commission  
    in  the  discharge of  its  functions  under  this Act.]
27			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Registrar	and	officers	and	other	employees		
 of Commission”
28			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
			 (1)					 The	 Commission	may	appoint	a	Registrar	and	such	officers	and	other			 employees	as	it	 
	 	 	 considers		necessary	for			the	efficient	performance	of	its	functions	under	this	 Act
 (2)    The salaries and allowances payable to and other terms and conditions of service of the  
	 	 	 Registrar		and	officers	and	other	employees	of
	 	 	 the	 Commission	and	the	number	of	such	officers	and	other	employees	shall	be	such	as 
   may be prescribed.”
(18)
CHAPTER  IV
DUTIES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF COMMISSION
Duties of Commission
18.  Subject to the  provisions of this Act, it shall  be  the  duty of the  Commission to 
 eliminate practices having  adverse effect on competition, promote and  sustain 
 competition, protect  the  interests of consumers and  ensure freedom of trade 
	 carried		on	by	other		participants,	in	markets	in	India:
 Provided that the Commission may, for the purpose of discharging its duties  or 
 performing  its   functions   under   this  Act,  enter   into  any   memorandum  or 
 arrangement with  the  prior  approval   of  the  Central   Government,  with  any 
 agency of any foreign country.
Inquiry into  certain agreements and dominant position of enterprise
19.  (1)  The  Commission may  inquire  into  any  alleged contravention of the  
	 	 provisions	 contained	 in	 subsection	 (1)	 of	 section	 3	 or	 sub-section	 (1)	 of	 
  section 4 either  on its own motion or on—
  (a)  
29[receipt of any information, in such manner and] accompanied by such 
   fee as may be determined by regulations, from any person, consumer or 
   their association or trade association; or
  (b)  a reference made to it by the Central  Government or a State 
   Government or a statutory authority.
	 (2)		Without	 prejudice	to	the	provisions	contained	in	sub-section	(1),	the	powers 
  and functions  of the Commission shall include  the  powers and  functions   
	 	 specified		in	sub-sections	(3)	to	(7).
 (3)  The   Commission shall,   while   determining whether an   agreement  has 
  an appreciable adverse effect on competition under  section 3, have  due 
	 	 regard	to	all	or	any	of	the	following	factors,		namely:—
  (a)  creation of barriers to new entrants in the market;  
  (b) driving existing  competitors out of the market;
  (c)  foreclosure of competition  by hindering  entry into the market;  
	 	 (d)	 accrual	of	benefits	to	consumers;
  (e)  improvements  in  production  or  distribution   of  goods  or  provision  
   of services; or
	 	 (f)	 promotion	 	 of	 technical,	 scientific	 	 and	 	 economic	 development	 by 
   means of production or distribution of goods or provision of services.
29		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“receipt	of	a	complaint,”
(19)
(4)  The  Commission shall,  while inquiring whether an  enterprise enjoys  a 
 dominant position  or not  under  section 4,  have  due  regard to all or any  of  
	 the		following	factors,		namely:—
 (a)   market  share  of the enterprise;
	 (b)		 	 size		and		resources	of	the	enterprise;
	 (c)		 	 size		and		importance	of	the	competitors;
 (d)   economic power  of the  enterprise including  commercial advantages over 
    competitors;
 (e)   vertical  integration of the  enterprises or sale  or service network  of such 
    enterprises;
 (f)  dependence of consumers on the enterprise;
 (g)   monopoly  or dominant position  whether acquired as a result  of any 
    statute or  by  virtue  of   being a  Government  company  or  a   public  
    sector  undertaking or otherwise;
	 (h)		 	 entry	 	 barriers	 including	 	 barriers	 such	 	 as	 regulatory	 barriers,	 financial 
    risk, high capital cost  of entry, marketing entry barriers, technical entry 
    barriers, economies  of  scale,   high   cost   of  substitutable  goods  or  
    service  for consumers; 
 (i)  countervailing buying power;
	 (j)	 	 market		structure	and		size		of	market;		
 (k) social obligations and  social costs;
 (I)  relative advantage,by way of the contribution to the economic  
    development, by  the  enterprise enjoying  a  dominant position  having  or 
    likely to have  an appreciable adverse effect on competition;
 (m)    any  other   factor  which  the  Commission  may  consider  relevant for 
    the inquiry.
(5)			For	 determining	 whether	 a	 	 market	 constitutes	 a	 	 “relevant	 	 market”	 for	 the 
 purposes of this  Act,  the  Commission shall  have   due  regard to  the  “relevant  
 geographic market’’  and  “relevant product  market”.
(6)		 	 The	 Commission	 shall,	 	 while	 determining	 the	 “relevant	 	 geographic 
	 	 market”,	have		due		regard	to	all	or	any	of	the	following	factors,		namely:—
 (a)   regulatory trade  barriers;
	 (b)		 		 local	specification	requirements;	
 (c)   national  procurement policies; 
 (d)   adequate distribution facilities; 
 (e)   transport costs;
 (f)  language;
 (g)   consumer preferences;
 (h)   need for secure	or	regular		supplies	or	rapid	after-sales	services.
(20)
(7)		 The		Commission	shall,		while		determining	the		“relevant		product		market”,			 	
	 	 have		due		regard	to	all	or	any	of	the	following	factors,		namely:—
	 	 	 (a)		 physical		characteristics	or	end-use	of	goods;	
   (b) price of goods or service
   (c)  consumer preferences;
	 	 	 (d)		 exclusion		of	in-house	production;	
   (e)  existence of specialised producers; 
	 	 	 (f)	 classification	of	industrial		products.
Inquiry into  combination by Commission
20.  (1)   The   Commission  may,   upon   its  own   knowledge  or  information  
	 	 	 	 relating			 to	acquisition	referred	to	in	clause	(a)	of	section	5	or	acquiring		of	 
	 	 	 	 control	 referred	 	to	 in	 clause	 (b)	 of	 section	 5	 or	 merger	 or	 amalgamation 
    referred to in clause (c) of that  section, inquire  into whether such  a 
    combination has  caused or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect 
	 	 	 	 on	competition	in	India:
    Provided that the Commission shall not initiate any inquiry under  this 
    subsection after  the expiry of one  year  from the  date  on which such 
    combination has  taken  effect.
	 (2)		 	 The		 Commission	shall,		on		receipt		of	a		notice		under		sub-section	(2)	of 
	 	 	 	 section	 6	
30[***], inquire  whether a  combination referred to in that  notice  or 
    reference has  caused or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on 
    competition in India.
	 (3)		 	 Not	 with	standing	anything		contained	in	section		5,	the		Central	Government
shall, on the expiry of a period  of two years from the date  of commence -
ment of this Act and   thereafter  every   two   years,   in  consultation  with  
the			Commission,		by	notification,		enhance	or		reduce,	on		the		basis	of	the	 	
wholesale	price		index		or	fluctuations	in	exchange	rate		of	rupee	or	foreign	
currencies, the  value  of assets or the value  of turnover,  for the purposes 
of that section.
 (4)   For the  purposes of determining whether a combination would have  the 
effect  of or is likely to  have  an  appreciable adverse effect  on competition 
in the  relevant  market, the  Commission  shall  have   due  regard   to  all  
or		any		of		the		following	factors,		namely:—
    (a)  actual  and  potential  level of competition through imports in the  
      market
    (b)  extent  of barriers to entry into the market;
    (c)  level of combination in the market;
30		The	words	“or	upon	receipt	of	a	reference	under	sub-section	(1)	of	section	21”	omitted	by	Competi-
tion	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
(21)
   (d)  degree of countervailing power  in the market;
   (e)  likelihood   that   the   combination   would   result    in   the   parties  to 
	 	 	 	 	 the	 combination	being		 able		 to	significantly		 and		 sustainably	increase 
	 	 	 	 	 prices		or	profit	margins;
   (f) extent  of effective competition likely to sustain in a market;
   (g)  extent  to which substitutes are  available or arc likely to be available in 
     the market;
   (h)  market  share, in the  relevant market,  of the  persons or  enterprise in 
     a combination, individually and  as a combination;
   (i) likelihood that  the  combination would result  in the  removal  of a  
     vigorous  and  effective competitor or competitors in the market;
   (j) nature and  extent  of vertical integration in the market;  
   (k) possibility of a failing business;
   (I) nature and  extent  of innovation;
   (m)  relative advantage, by  way of the contribution to the economic 
development,  by  any  combination having  or  likely to  have appreciable 
adverse effect on competition;
	 	 	 (n) 		 whether	the		benefits	of	the		combination	outweigh		the		adverse	impact		
     of the combination, if any.
Reference by statutory authority
21.  (1)  Where  in the  course of a proceeding before  any  statutory authority  an 
   issue is raised by any party that any decision which such  statutory authority 
   has  taken  or proposes to take  is or would be, contrary  to any of the 
   provisions of this Act, then such  statutory authority  may  make  a  reference  
	 	 	 in	respect	of	such		issue	to	the	Commission:
   31[Provided that  any  statutory authority,  may,  suo  motu,  make  such  a   
   reference to the Commission.]
    32[(2)	 On	 	 receipt	 	of	 a	 reference	 under	 	sub-section	 (1),	 the	 	Commission	 shall 
   give its opinion,  within sixty days  of receipt  of such  reference, to such 
   statutory authority which  shall  consider the  opinion  of  the  Commission  
	 	 	 and		 thereafter,		give		 its	findings	recording	reasons	therefor		 on	the	issues 
   referred  to in the said opinion.]
31			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
32			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “	 On	 receipt	 of	 a	 reference	 under	 sub-section	 (1),	 the	 Commission	 shall,	 after	 hearing	 the 
 parties to the proceedings, give its opinion to such statutory authority which shall thereafter  
	 pass	such	order	on	the	issues	referred	to	in	that	sub-section	as	it	deems	fit:
	 Provided	 that	 the	 Commission	 shall	 give	 its	 opinion	 under	 this	 section	 within	 sixty	 days	 of 
 receipt of such reference.”
(22)
33[Reference by Commission]
34[21A. (1) Where  in  the  course of  a  proceeding before   the  Commission an 
    issue is raised by any  party  that  any  decision which, the  Commission  
    has  taken  during such  proceeding or proposes to take,  is or would be 
    contrary  to any  provision  of this  Act  whose  implementation is 
    entrusted  to  a  statutory authority,   then   the Commission may  make 
	 	 	 	 a		reference	in		respect	of		such		issue		to		the		statutory	authority:
    Provided that the Commission, may, suo motu, make such a reference  
    to the statutory authority.
	 	 	 (2)		 On	receipt		of	a	reference	under		sub-section	(1),	the	statutory	authority			
    shall  give its opinion,  within sixty  days   of receipt   of such   reference,  
    to  the  Commission which shall  consider the opinion of the  statutory  
	 	 	 	 authority,		and		thereafter	give	its	findings	recording	reasons	there	for		on		
    the issues referred  to in the said opinion.]
35 [Meetings of Commission]
36[22. (1) The Commission shall  meet  at such  times  and  places, and  shall   
    observe such  rules  and  procedure in regard to the  transaction of  
    business at its meetings as may be provided  by regulations.
   (2)  The   Chairperson,  if   for  any   reason,  is  unable  to  attend  a 
	 	 	 	 meeting		 of		 the	Commission,	the		 senior-most	Member		 present	at		 the 
    meeting, shall  preside at the meeting.
   (3)  All questions which  come  up  before  any  meeting of the  Commission  
    shall  be decided by a majority of the Members present and   voting, and  
    in the event  of an equality  of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence,  
	 	 	 	 the	Member		presiding,	shall	have		a	second	or/casting	vote:
    Provided that the quorum  for such  meeting shall be three  Members.]
33 		 Ins.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
34 	 Ins.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
35			 Subs.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Benches	of	Commission”
36			 Subs.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
 (1)    The jurisdiction, power and authority of the Commission may be exercised by Benches  
  thereof.
 (2)    The Benches shall be constituted by the Chairperson and each Bench shall consist of  
  not less than two Members. 
 (3)    Every Bench shall consist of at least one Judicial Member.
	 	 Explanation.—For	 the	purposes	of	this	sub-section,	“Judicial	Member”	means	a	Member 
	 	 who	is,	or	has	been,	or	is	qualified	to	be,	a	Judge	of	a	High	Court.
	 (4)			 The	 Bench	 over	 which	 the	 Chairperson	 presides	 shall	 be	 the	 Principal	 Bench	 and	 the 
  other Benches shall be known as the Additional Benches.
	 (5)	 	 	 	 There	 shall	 be	 constituted	 by	 the	 Chairperson	 one	 or	 more	 Benches	 to	 be	 called	 the 
  Mergers Bench or Mergers Benches, as the case may be, exclusively to deal with matters  
	 	 referred	to	in	sections	5	and	6.
	 (6)			 The	places	at	which	the	Principal	Bench,	other	 Additional	Bench	or	Mergers	Bench	shall
 
	 	 ordinarily	sit,	shall	be	such	as	the	Central	Government	may,	by	notification,	specify.”
(23)
37		Prior	to	omission,	Section	23	read	as	under:-
 “   Distribution of business of Commission amongst Benches
 (1)  Where any Benches are constituted, the Chairperson  may, from time to time, by  order,  
  make provisions as to the distribution of the business of the Commission amongst the  
  Benches and specify the matters, which may be dealt with by each Bench.
 (2) If any question arises as to whether any matter falls within the purview of the business  
	 	 allocated	to	a		Bench,	the	decision	of	the	Chairperson	thereon	shall	be	final.	
 (3)    The Chairperson may
  (i)  transfer a Member from one Bench to another Bench , or
	 	 (ii)	 authorize	 the	Members	of	one	Bench	to	discharge	also	the	functions	of	the	Members 
	 	 	 of	other	Bench:
Provided	that	the	Chairperson	shall	transfer,	with	the	prior	approval	of	the	Central	Government,	a	
Member from one Bench situated in one city to another Bench situated in another city.
 (4) The Chairperson may, for the purpose of securing that any case or matter which, having
 
  regard to the nature of the questions involved, requires or is required in his opinion or  
  under the rules made by the Central Government in this behalf, to be decided by a Bench  
  composed of more than two Members issue such general or special orders as he may  
	 	 deem	fit.”
38	 Prior	to	omission	Section	24	read	as	under:
	 “			Procedure	for	deciding	a	case	where	Members	of	a	Bench	differ	in	opinion
 If the Members of a Bench differ in opinion on any point, they shall state the point or points  
 on which they differ, and make a reference to the Chairperson who shall either hear the point  
 or points himself or  refer the case for hearing on such point or points by one or more of the  
 other Members and such point or points shall be decided according to the opinion of the  
	 majority	of	the	Members	who	have	heard	the	case,	including	those	who	first	heard	it.”
39			 Prior	to	omission,	Section	25	read	as	under:	“	Jurisdiction	of	Bench
 An inquiry shall be initiated or a complaint be instituted or a reference be made under this Act  
 before a Bench within the local limits of whose jurisdiction—
 (a)  the respondent, or each of the respondents, where there are more than one, at the time  
  of the initiation of inquiry or institution of the complaint or making of reference, as the case 
  may be, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on business, or personally works for  
  gain; or
 (b) any of the respondents, where there are more than one, at the time of the initiation of the  
  inquiry or institution of complaint or making of reference, as the case may be, actually and 
  voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally works for gain provided that in  
  such case either the leave of the Bench is given, or the respondents who do not reside, or  
  carry on business, or personally work for gain, as aforesaid, acquiesce in such institution;  
  or
 (c)  the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises.
	 Explanation.—A 	respondent,	being	a	person	referred	to	in	sub-clause	(iii)	or	sub-clause	(vi)	or 
	 sub-clause	 (vii)	 or	 sub-clause	 (viii)	 of	 clause	 (1)	 of	 section	 2,	 shall	 be	 deemed	 to	 carry	 on 
	 business	 at	its	sole	or	principal	place	of	business	in	India	or	at	its	registered	office	in	India	or 
	 where	it	has	also	a	subordinate	office	at	such	place.”
3723.		 [Omitted	by	the	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
3824.		 [Omitted	by	the	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
3925.		 [Omitted	by	the	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
(24)
40[Procedure for inquiry under section 19]
41[26.	(1)	 On	 receipt	 	 of	 a	 reference	 from	 the	 	 Central	 	 Government	 or	 a	 State 
   Government or a  statutory  authority  or on  its own  knowledge or  
	 	 	 information	 	 received	 under	 	 section	 19,	 	 if	 	 the	 	 Commission	 	 is	 of	 the 
   opinion that  there  exists  a  prima  facie case, it shall direct the Director 
	 	 	 General	to	cause	an	investigation	to	be	made	into	the	matter:
   Provided that  if the  subject matter  of an information  received is, in the 
   opinion of the Commission, substantially the same as or has  been covered  
   by any previous information received, then  the new information  may be 
   clubbed with the previous information.
  (2)  Where   on   receipt   of  a   reference  from  the   Central   Government  or 
   a State Government or a statutory  authority  or information received under   
	 	 	 section	19,	
40			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Procedure	for	inquiry	on	complaints	under		
	 section	19”
41			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “			Procedure	for	inquiry	on	complaints	under	Section	19
	 (1)	 On	 receipt	 of	 a	 complaint	 or	 a	 reference	 from	 the	 Central	 Government	 or	 a	 State 
  Government or a statutory authority or on its own knowledge or information, under section 
	 	 19,	 if	the	Commission	is	of	the	opinion	that	there	exists	a	prima	facie	case,	it	shall	direct 
  the Director General to cause an investigation to be made into the matter.
	 (2)			 The	 Director	General	shall,	on	receipt	of	direction	under	sub-section	(1),	submit	a	report 
	 	 on	his	findings	with	in	such	period	as	may	be	specified	by	the	Commission.
	 (3)	 Where	 on	 receipt	 of	 a	 complaint	 under	 clause	 (a)	 of	 sub-section	 (1)	 of	 section	 19,	 the
 
  Commission is of the opinion that there exists no prima facie case, it shall dismiss the  
	 	 complaint	 and	may	pass	such	orders	as	it	may	deems	fit,	including	imposition	of	costs,	if 
  necessary.
	 (4)	 The	 Commission	 shall	 forward	 a	 copy	 of	 the	 report	 referred	 to	 in	 sub-section	 (2)	 to	 the 
  parties concerned or to the Central Government or the State Government or the statutory  
  authority, as the case may be.
	 (5)				If	 the	report	of	the	Director	General	relates	on	a	complaint	and	such	report	recommends 
  that there is no contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, the complainant shall be  
	 	 given	an	opportunity	to	rebut	the	findings	of	the	Director	General.
	 (6)	 If,	 after	hearing	the	complainant,	the	Commission	agrees	with	the	recommendation	of	the
 
  Director  General, it shall dismiss the complaint.
	 (7)	 If,	 after	hearing	the	complainant,	the	Commission	is	of	the	opinion	that	further	inquiry	is 
  called for, it shall direct the complainant to proceed with the complaint.
	 (8)		 If	 the	 report	 of	 the	 Director	 General	 relates	 on	 a	 reference	 made	 under	 sub-section	 (/) 
  and such report recommends that there is no contravention  of  the  provisions of  this  
  Act, the Commission shall invite  comments  of  the Central Government or  the State  
  Government or the statutory authority, as the case may be, on such report and on receipt  
  of such comments, the Commission shall return the reference if there is no prima facie  
  case or proceed with the reference as a complaint if there is a prima facie case.
	 (9)			 If	 the	report	of	the	Director	General	referred	to	in	sub-section	(2)	recommends	that	there 
  is contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, and the Commission is of the opinion  
  that further inquiry is called for, it shall inquire into such contravention in accordance with  
  the provisions of this Act.”
(25)
   the Commission is of the  opinion  that  there  exists  no prima  facie  case, it  
	 	 	 shall	 	 close	 the	 matter	 forthwith	 and	 	pass	 such	 	orders	 as	 it	 deems	 fit	 and 
   send a copy  of its order   to  the   Central  Government  or  the   State 
   Government or  the   statutory authority  or the parties concerned, as the  
   case may be.
	 	 (3)		 The	 Director	 General	 shall,	 on	 receipt	 	of	 direction	 	under	 	sub-section	 (1), 
	 	 	 submit	 	 a	 report	 on	 his	 findings	 within	 such	 	period	 as	 may	 be	 specified	 by 
   the Commission.
  (4)  The  Commission may  forward  a copy  of the  report  referred to in sub   
	 	 	 section(3)	to	the	parties	concerned:
Provided that in case the investigation is caused to be made based on 
reference received from the  Central  Government or the  State Government 
or the  statutory authority,  the  Commission  shall forward  a copy  of the 
report		referred	to	in	sub-	section	(3)	to	the		Central		Government		or	the		State	
Government or the  statutory authority,  as the case may be.
	 	 (5)		 If	 the	 	report	 	of	 the	 	Director	 	General	 referred	 to	 in	 sub-section	 (3)	 reco-
mends that  there  is no contravention of the  provisions of this Act, the 
Commission shall invite  objections  or  suggestions  from  the   Central  
Government  or  the   State Government or the statutory authority or the 
parties concerned, as the case may be, on such  report of the Director 
General.
	 	 (6)		 If,	 after	 consideration	 of	 the	 objections	 and	 	 suggestions	 referred	 to	 in
sub		section	(5),		if		any,		the		Commission	agrees		with		the		recommendation	
of  the  Director General, it shall  close  the matter forthwith and  pass such  
orders	as	it	deems	fit	and		communicate	its	order		to	the		Central	Government	 	
or the  State Government or the statutory authority or the parties concerned, 
as the case may be.
	 	 (7)		 If,	 after	 	consideration	 of	 the	 	objections	 or	 suggestions	 referred	 to	 in	 sub	 	
section	 (5),	 if	 any,	 	 the	 	 Commission	 is	 of	 the	 	 opinion	 	 that	 	 further 
investigations is called for, it may  direct  further  investigation in the 
matter  by the  Director  General or cause further  inquiriy to be  made by in  
the  matter  or itself proceed with further inquiry in the matter  in accordance 
with the provisions of this Act.
	 	 (8)		 If	 the	 	 report	 	 of	 the	 	 Director	 	 General	 referred	 to	 in	 sub-section	 (3)
recommends that   there   is   contravention  of  any   of  the   provisions  of  this   Act,  
and   the Commission is of the  opinion that  further  inquiry is called  for, it shall  
inquire  into such  contravention in accordance with the provisions of this Act.]
Orders by   Commission  after  inquiry into   agreements or   abuse of  dominant 
position
27.		 Where			 after		 inquiry		 the		 Commission		 finds		 that		 any		 agreement		 referred 
  to in section 3 or action  of an  enterprise in a dominant position,  is in 
  contravention of section 3 or section 4, as the case may be,  it may pass all or  
	 	 any	of	the	following	orders,	namely:—
(26)
  (a)  direct any enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association  
   of persons, as the  case may  be,  involved in such  agreement, or abuse of 
	 	 	 dominant	 position,		to		discontinue	and		not		to	re-enter	such		agreement	or 
   discontinue such  abuse of dominant position,  as the case may be;
	 	 (b)		 impose	 such		 penalty,		as	it	may		 deem	fit	which	shall		 be		 not	more		 than 
   ten percent of  the  average  of  the  turnover   for  the  last   three  
	 	 	 preceding	financial	years,	upon		each	of	such		person	or	enterprises	which		
	 	 	 are		parties	to	such		agreements	or	abuse:
   42[Provided that  in case any  agreement referred to in section 3 has  been  
   entered into   by   a   cartel,   the   Commission  may   impose  upon   each 
   producer,  seller,  distributor,   trader   or  service  provider   included   in 
	 	 	 that	 cartel,		a		penalty			 of		up		to		three		times		of		its		profit		for		each	year 
   of the continuance of such  agreement or ten  percent.  of its turnover  for 
   each year  of the continuance of such  agreement, whichever is higher.]
        43(c)		[Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	Act,	2007]
	 		 (d)		 direct		 that		 the			 agreements	shall		 stand	modified		 to	the		 extent		 and		 in 
	 	 	 the	manner	as	may	be	specified	in	the	order	by	the	Commission;
  (e)  direct  the  enterprises concerned to  abide   by  such   other  orders as the 
   Commission may  pass and  comply with the  directions, including  payment  
   of costs, if any;
        44(f)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	Act,	2007]
  (g)  pass such  other  45[order	or	issue	such		directions]		as	it	may	deem	fit.
46[Provided that   while  passing  orders   under   this  section,  if  the 
Commission	comes	to	a	finding,	that	an	enterprise	in	contravention	to	section	3	
or	section	4	of	the		Act	is	a		member	of	a		group		as	defined		in	clause	(b)	of	
the	 	Explanation	 to	 section	 5	 of	 the	Act,	 and	 	other	 members	 of	 such	 	a 
group are  also  responsible for, or have  contributed to, such  a  
contravention, then  it may pass orders, under  this section, against such  
members of the group.]
42			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “			 Provided	that	in	case	any	agreement	referred	to	in	section	3	has	been	entered	into	by	any 
 cartel, the Commission shall impose upon each producer, seller, distributor, trader or service  
	 provider	 included	 in	 that	 cartel,	 a	 penalty	 equivalent	 to	 three	 times	 of	 the	 amount	 of	 profits 
 made  out of such agreement by the cartel or ten percent. of the average of the turnover of the  
	 cartel	for	the	last	preceding	three	financial	years,	whichever	is	higher;”
43			 Prior	to	omission,	Clause	(c)	of	Section	27	read	as	under:-
 “award compensation to parties in accordance with the provisions contained in section 34;”  
44			 Prior	to	omission,	Clause	(c)	of	Section	27	read	as	under:-
 “recommend to the Central Government for the division of an enterprise enjoying dominant  
 position;”
45			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“order”
46			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
(27)
47			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“Central	Government,	on	recommendation		
	 under	clause(f)	of	section	27”
48			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(d)	of	sub-section(2)	of	section	28	read	as	under:-
 “the payment of compensation to any person who suffered any loss due to dominant position of  
 such enterprise;”
49			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
Division of enterprise enjoying dominant position
28 (1)  The 47[Commission]  may, notwithstanding anything  contained in any 
    other  law for the  time  being  in  force,   by  order   in  writing,  direct  division  of  an 
    enterprise enjoying  dominant  position to  ensure that  such   enterprise does  
    not  abuse its dominant position.
 (2)  In particular,  and  without prejudice to the  generality  of the  foregoing  
	 	 		 powers,	the	order		referred		to		in	sub-section	(1)	may		provide		for	all	or	any			
	 	 		 of	the		following	matters,	namely:—
    (a)  the transfer or vesting  of property,  rights, liabilities or obligations;
    (b)  the adjustment of contracts either  by discharge or reduction of any 
      liability or obligation or otherwise;
    (c)  the  creation, allotment,  surrender or cancellation of any  shares, stocks 
      or securities;
	 	 	48(d)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
    (e)  the  formation  or  winding  up  of an  enterprise or  the  amendment of 
      the memorandum   of  association  or  articles   of  association  or  any 
      other instruments regulating the business of any enterprise;
    (f) the  extent   to  which,  and  the  circumstances in which,  provisions of 
      the order  affecting  an  enterprise may  be  altered by  the  enterprise  
      and the registration thereof;
    (g)  any  other  matter  which may  be  necessary to give effect  to the    
        division of the enterprise.
 (3)  Notwithstanding anything  contained in any other  law for the time being  in 
    force or in any  contract or in any  memorandum or articles  of association,  
	 	 		 an	officer	of	a	company	who	ceases	to	hold	office	as	such		in	consequence	of		
    the division of an enterprise shall not be entitled to claim any compensation  
    for such  cesser.
Procedure for investigation of combination
29. (1) Where  the  Commission is of the  49[prima facie]  opinion  that  a 
    combination is likely to  cause,  or  has   caused an  appreciable  adverse  
    effect  on  competition within the  relevant market  in  India, it shall  issue 
    a notice  to show  cause to the parties to  combination calling  upon  
    them  to  respond within  thirty  days   of  the receipt  of  the  notice,   as to 
    why investigation in  respect of  such   combination should  not be conducted.
(28)
50[1(A) After  receipt  of the  response of the  parties to  the  combination under  
   sub- section (1), the Commission may  call for a report  from the  Director 
   General and such report  shall  be  submitted  by the  Director  General  
   within such time as the Commission may direct.]
  (2)  The Commission, if it is prima facie of the opinion that the combination has,
or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on competition, it shall,  
within seven  working  days   from  the  date  of  receipt   of  the  response of  
the  parties to  the combination, 
51 [or the  receipt  of the  report  from Director  
General called  under  sub  section (1A), whichever  is later] direct the par-
ties  to  the said  combination to publish details  of the  combination within ten  
working  days  of such  direction,  in such   manner, as  it  thinks   appropriate,  
for  bringing   the   combination  to  the knowledge  or  information   of  the  
public  and   persons  affected or  likely  to  be affected by such 
combination.
  (3)  The  Commission may  invite  any  person or  member of the  public,  affected
or	likely	to	be	affected	by	the		said		combination,	to	file	his	written	objections,	
if	any,	before	the		Commission		within	fifteen		working		days		from	the		date		on	 	
which		the	details		of	the	combination	were	published	under		sub-section	(2).
	 	 (4)		 The	 	 Commission	 may,	 	within	 fifteen	 working	 days	 	from	the	 	expiry	 of	 the 
	 	 	 	 period	 specified	 in	 sub-section	 (3),	 call	 for	 such	 	 additional	 	 or	 other	 
	 	 	 information		as	it	may	deem	fit	from	the	parties	to	the	said	combination.
	 	 (5)			The			 additional			 or		 other			 information			 called			 for		 by		 the			 Commission 
	 	 	 shall		 be	furnished	by	the	parties	referred	to	in	sub-section	(4)	within	fifteen 
	 	 	 days		from	the	expiry	of	the	period	specified	in	sub-section	(4).
	 	 (6)		 After	 receipt	 	 of	 all	 information	 	 and	 	 within	 a	 period	 	 of	 forty-five	 working 
	 	 	 days	 from	the			 expiry		 of		 the			 period			 specified			 in		 sub-section		 (5),		 the 
   Commission  shall proceed to  deal  with the  case  in accordance with the 
   provisions contained in section 31.
52[Procedure in case of notice under sub-section (2) of section 6]
53[30. Where  any  person or enterprises has  given  a  notice  under  sub-section (2) 
   of  section 6,  the  Commission shall  examine such  notice  and  form its prima 
   facie opinion  as  provided   in  sub-section  (1)  of  section  29  and   proceed as 
    per provisions contained in that section.]
50			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
51			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
52			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Inquiry	into	disclosure	under	sub-section(2)		
	 of	section	6”
53			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “Where	any	person	or	enterprise	has	given	a	notice	under	sub-section	(2)	of	section	6.	 The		
 Commission shall inquire— 
 (a)  whether the disclosure made in the notice is correct;
 (b)  whether the combination has, or is likely to have, an appreciable adverse effect on   
  competition.”
(29)
Orders of Commission on certain combinations
31. (1)  Where  the Commission is of the opinion that any combination does not, or 
    is not likely to,  have  an  appreciable adverse effect  on  competition, it shall, 
    by order, approve that  combination including  the  combination  in respect of  
	 	 	 	 which	a	notice	has		been	given	under		sub-section	(2)	of	section		6.
  (2)  Where  the  Commission is of the  opinion  that  the  combination has, or is
likely to have,   an  appreciable adverse  effect   on  competition,  it  shall  
direct   that   the combination shall not take effect.
  (3)  Where  the  Commission is of the  opinion  that  the  combination has, or is
likely to have,  an appreciable adverse effect  on competition  but such 
adverse	 effect	 	 can	 be	 	 	eliminated	 	 by	 	 suitable	 	 modification	 	 	to	 	 such	 
combination,		it		may			propose	appropriate	modification	to	the	combination,	to	
the parties to such  combination.
	 	 (4)		 The		 parties,	who		 accept	the		 modification		 proposed	by		 the		 Commission 
	 	 	 	 under	 	 subsection	 (3),	 shall	 carry	 out	 such	 	 modification	 within	 the	 period 
	 	 	 	 specified	by	the	Commission.
	 	 (5)		 If		 the		 parties	to		 the		 combination,	who		 have			 accepted	the		 modification	
under	 	 subsection	 (4),	 fail	 to	 carry	 out	 the	 modification	 	 within	 the	 period 
specified	by	the	Commission,	such		combination	shall	be	deemed	to	have		an	
appreciable adverse effect  on  competition and  the  Commission shall  deal  
with such  combination in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
	 	 (6)		 If	 the		parties	to	the		combination	do	not	accept	the		modification		proposed	by
the	 Commission	 	 under	 	 sub-section	 (3),	 such	 	 parties	 may,	 	within	 thirty	
working	days		of		the		modification		proposed		by		the		Commission,		submit	 	 	
amendment	 	to	 	the	 modification	 proposed	 by	 the	 Commission	 under	 	that	
sub-section.
	 	 (7)		 If		 the		 Commission	agrees		 with	the		 amendment	submitted	by	the		 parties 
	 	 	 	 under		subsection	(6),	it	shall,	by	order,		approve	the	combination.
	 	 (8)		 If	 the	 	Commission	does	not	accept	the	 	amendment	submitted	under	 	sub
section	(6),	then,		the	parties	shall	be	allowed		a	further	period	of	thirty	working	
days		within	which		such		parties	shall		accept	the		modification		proposed	by	
the		Commission	under		sub-section	(3).
	 	 (9)		 If	 the		 parties	fail	to	accept	the		 modification		 proposed	by	the		 Commission
within	 thirty	 working	 days	 	referred	 to	 in	 sub-section	 (6)	 or	 within	 a	 further	
period		of	thirty	working	days		referred	to	in	sub-section	(8),	the		combination	
shall  be  deemed to have   an   appreciable  adverse  effect   on   competition  
and   be   dealt   with  in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
	 	 (10)	 Where	the		Commission	has		directed	under		sub-section	(2)	that		the			
combination shall   not  take  effect  or  the  combination  is  deemed  to  have   
an			appreciable	adverse	effect		on		competition		under		sub-section	(9),	then,	 	
without  prejudice to any  penalty  which  may  be  imposed or any  prosecu -
tion which  may  be  initiated under  this Act, the Commission may order that 
(30)
	(a)		 the	acquisition	referred	to	in	clause	(a)	of	section	5;	or
	 	 	 	 	 (b)		 the	acquiring		of	control	referred	to	in	clause	(b)	of	section	5;	or
	 	 	 	 	 (c)		 the	 merger	or	amalgamation	referred	to	in	clause	(c)	of	section	5,	shall	not	 
	 	 	 	 	 	 be	given	effect	to:	
      Provided that  the Commission may, if it considers appropriate, frame   
	 	 	 	 	 	 a		scheme	to	implement	its	order	under	this	sub-section.
 (11) If the Commission does not, on the expiry of a period  of 
54[two hundred
and  ten days  from the  date  of notice  given  to the  Commission 
under  sub-section (2) of section 6], pass an  order  or issue direction  in 
accordance	with	the		provisions		of	sub-section	(1)	or	sub-section	(2)	or		sub-
section	(7),		 the		 combination	shall		 be	deemed	to	have		 been	approved	by	
the Commission.
Explanation.—For the  purposes of determining the  period  of 55[two hundred 
and ten]	days	specified	in	this	subsection,	the		period		of	thirty	working	days	 	
specified	 in	 sub-section	 (6)	 and	 	a	 	further	 	period	 	of	 thirty	 working	 	days	 	
specified	in	sub-	section	(8)	shall	be	excluded.
 (12) Where any  extension of time  is sought  by the  parties to the  combination,  
   the period  of  ninety  working  days  shall  be  reckoned after  deducting the   
   extended time granted at the request of the parties.
 (13) Where the Commission has  ordered a combination to be void, the
acquisition or acquiring  of control  or merger or amalgamation referred to in 
section	5,	shall		be	dealt		with	by	the		authorities	under		any		other		law	for	the	 	
time being  in force  as if such  acquisition or acquiring of control or merger or 
amalgamation had  not taken place and  the parties to the combination shall 
be dealt with accordingly.
 (14) Nothing  contained in this Chapter shall  affect  any  proceeding initiated  or 
   which may be initiated under  any other  law for the time being  in force.
Acts taking place outside India  but  having an  effect on  competition in India
32.  The Commission shall, notwithstanding that,—
 (a)  an agreement referred to in section 3 has  been entered into outside India;or
 (b)  any party to such  agreement is outside India; or
 (c)  any enterprise abusing the dominant position  is outside India; or
 (d)  a combination has  taken  place  outside India; or
 (e)  any party to combination is outside India; or
54			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “ninety	working	days	from	the	date	of	publication	referred	to	in	sub-section(2)	of	section	29”
55			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	”ninety	days”
(31)
 (f)  any  other  matter  or practice or action  arising  out  of such  agreement or 
   dominant position  or combination is outside India,
have   power   to  inquire   56[in accordance  with  the   provisions  contained  in 
sections	19,		20,		26,		29		and		30		of	the		Act]	into	such		agreement	or	abuse	of	
dominant position  or  combination if  such  agreement or  dominant position  or 
combination has,  or  is  likely  to   have,   an   appreciable  adverse  effect   on 
competition in the  relevant market  in India  
57[and  pass such orders as it may 
deem	fit	in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	this	Act.]
58[Power to issue interim orders]
59[33.	 	Where			during			an			inquiry,		the			Commission		is		satisfied		that			an			act			in
contravention		of	sub-section	(1)	of	section	3	or	sub-section	(1)	of	section	4	or	
section	6	has		been	committed	and		continues	to	be		committed		or	that		such	 	
act  is about  to be  committed, the  Commission may, by order,  temporarily  
restrain any party from carrying  on such  act until the conclusion of such inquiry 
or until further orders, without giving notice  to such  party, where  it deems it 
necessary.]
56			 Ins.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
57			 Ins.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
58			 Subs.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Power	to	grant	interim	relief”
59			 Subs.	by	the	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 (1) Where during an inquiry before the Commission, it is proved to the satisfaction of the  
	 	 Commission,	 by	affidavit	or	otherwise,	that	an	act	in	contravention	of	sub-section	(1)	of	 
	 	 section	 3	or	sub-section	(1)	of	section	4	or	section	6	has	been	committed	and	continues 
  to be committed or that such act is about to be committed, the Commission may, by  
  order, grant a temporary injunction restraining any party from carrying on such act  
  until the conclusion of such inquiry or until further orders, without giving notice to the  
  opposite party, where it deems it necessary.
 (2)  Where during the inquiry before the Commission it is proved to the satisfaction of the 
Commission	by	affidavit	or	otherwise	that	import	of	any	goods	is	likely	to	contravene	sub-
section	(1)	of	section	3	or	subsection	(1)	of	section	4	or	section	6,	it	may,	by	order,	grant	a	
temporary injunction restraining any party from importing such goods until the conclusion 
of such inquiry or until further orders, without giving notice to the opposite party, where it 
deems it necessary and a copy of such order granting temporary injunction shall be sent 
to the concerned authorities.
	 (3)	 The	 provisions	 of	 rules	 2A	 to	 5	 (both	 inclusive)	 of	 Order	 XXXIX	 of	 the	 First
 
	 	 Schedule		 to	 the	 Code	 of	 Civil	 Procedure,	 1908	 (5	 of	 1908)	 shall,	 as	 far	 as	 may	 be, 
  apply to a temporary injunction issued by the Commission under this Act, as they apply  
  to a temporary injunction issued by a civil court, and any reference in any such rule to a  
  suit shall be construed as a reference to any inquiry before the Commission.
(32)
6034.				 [Omitted	 by	the Competition		(Amendment)	Act,	2007]	(39	of	2007	with	effect 
	 	 from	12th	October	2007)
Appearance before Commission
35.   A 61[person or an enterprise] or the Director General may either  appear in
person or authorise one  or more  chartered accountants or company secre-
taries	or	cost	accountants	or	legal	practitioners	or	any		of	his	or	its	officers		to	
present his or i ts case before  the Commission.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
	 (a)		 “chartered	 	 accountant”	 	means	 	a	 	 	chartered	 accountant	 as	 	defined	 	 	in	 
	 	 clause	 (b)	of		sub-section	(1)	of	section	2		of	the		Chartered	Accountants	Act, 
	 	 1949	 	 (38	 	of	 	1949)	 	and	 	who	 	has	 	 	obtained	 a	 	certificate	 	 	of	 	practice	 
	 	 under	sub-section	(1)	of	section	6	of	that	 Act;	
	 (b)		 “company	secretary”	means	a	company	secretary	as	defined		in	clause	(c)	of	
sub-section	 (1)	 of	 section	 2	 of	 the	 	Company	 Secretaries	Act,	 1980	 	(56	 of	
1980)		and		who	has	obtained	a	certificate		of	practice	under		sub-section	(1)	
of	section	6	of	that	Act;
	 (c)		 “cost		 accountant”	means		a		cost		accountant	as	defined		in	clause	(b)		of	sub
section	(1)	of	section		2	of	the	Cost		and		Works	Accountants	Act,	1959	(23		of	
1959)		and		who		has		obtained	a		certificate		of	practice	under		sub-	section	
(1)	of	section	6	of	that	Act;
 (d) “legal  practitioner”  means an  advocate, vakil or an  attorney of any  High  
  Court, and  includes a pleader in practice.
60			 Prior	to	omission,	section	34	read	as	under:-	
	 	 “		Power	to	award	compensation
 (1)  Without prejudice to any other provisions contained in this Act, any person may make an  
  application to the Commission for an orderfor the recovery of compensation from any  
  enterprise for any loss or damage shown to have been suffered, by such person as a  
  result of any contravention of the provisions of Chapter II, having been committed by such 
  enterprise.
 (2)  The Commission may, after an inquiry made into the allegations mentioned in the  
	 	 application	 made	 under	 sub-section	 (1),	 pass	 an	 order	 directing	 the	 enterprise	 to	 make 
  payment to the applicant, of the amount determined by it as realisable from the enterprise  
  as compensation for the loss or damage caused to the applicant as a result of any contra  
  vention of the provisions of Chapter II having been committed by such enterprise.
	 (3)		 Where	 any	loss	or	damage	referred	to	in	sub-section	(1)	is	caused	to	numerous	persons 
  having the same interest, one or more of such persons may, with the permission of the  
	 	 Commission,	 make	an	application		 under	that	sub-section	for	and	on	behalf	of,	or	for	the	 
	 	 benefit	 of,	the	persons	so	interested,	and	thereupon,	the	provisions	of	rule	8	of	Order	1	of 
  the First Schedule to the Code of Civil
	 	 Procedure,	 1908	(5	of	1908),	shall	apply	subject	to	the	modification	that	every	reference 
  therein to a suit or decree shall be construed as a reference to the application before the  
  Commission and the order of the Commission thereon.”
61			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“complainant	or	defendant”
(33)
62			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “(1)  The Commission shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil 
Procedure,1908	(5	of	1908),	but	shall	be	guided	by	the	principles	of	natural	justice	and,	
subject to the other provisions of this Act and of any rules made by the Central Govern -
ment, the Commission shall have powers to regulate its own procedure including the 
places at which they shall have their sittings, duration of oral hearings when granted, and 
times of its inquiry.
 (2)   The Commission shall have, for the purposes of discharging its functions umder this
 
	 	 Act,	the	same	powers	as	are	vested	in	a	civil	court	under	the	Code	of	Civil	Procedure,		
	 	 1908(5	of	1908),	while	trying	a	suit,	in	respect	of	the	following	matters,	namely:—
  (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;  
  (b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
	 	 (c)	 receiving	evidence	on	affidavits;
  (d) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
  (e) subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act,   
	 	 	 1872	(1of	1872),			requisitioning	any	public	record	or	document	or	copy	of	such		 	
	 	 	 record	or	document	from	any	office;
  (f) dismissing an application in default or deciding it ex parte; (g)any other matter which  
   may be prescribed.
 (3)   Every proceeding before the Commission shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
 
	 	 within	the	meaning	of	sections	193	and	228	and
	 	 for	 the	 purposes	 of	 section	 196	 of	 the	 Indian	 Penal	 Code	 (45	 of	 1860)	 and	 the	
 
	 	 Commission	shall	be	deemed	to	be	a	civil	court	for	the	purposes	of	section	195	(2	of		
	 	 1974)	and	Chapter	XXVI	of	the	Code	of	Criminal	Procedure,	1973.
	 (4)		 The	 Commission	 may	 call	 upon	 such	 experts,	 from	 the	 fields	 of	 economics,	 commerce, 
  accountancy, international trade or from any other discipline as it deems necessary, to  
  assist the Commission in the conduct of any inquiry or proceeding before it.
	 (5)		 The	Commission	may	direct	any	person—
	 	 (a)	 to	produce	before	the	Director	General	or	the	Registrar	or	an	officer	authorised		 	
   by it, such books, accounts or other documents in the custody or under the   
	 	 	 control	 of	such	person	so	directed	as	may	be		specified	or	described	in	the	direction, 
   being documents relating to any trade, the examination of which may be required for  
   the purposes of this Act;
	 	 (b)	 to	 furnish	to	the	Director	General	or	the	Registrar	or	any	officer	authorised	by	it,	as 
   respects the trade or such other information as may be in his possession in relation  
   to the trade carried on by such person, as may be required for the purposes of this  
   Act.
	 (6)			 If	the	Commission	is	of	the	opinion	that	any	agreement	referred	to	in	section	3	or	“abuse 
	 	 of	 dominant	 position	 referred	 to	 in	 section	 4	 or	 the	 combination	 referred	 to	 in	 section	 5 
  has  caused or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition in the  
  relevant market in India and it is necessary to protect, without further delay, the interests  
  of consumers and other market participants in India, it may conduct an inquiry or  
  adjudicate upon any matter under this Act after giving a reason able oral hearing to the  
  parties concerned.”
Power of Commission to regulate its  own  procedure
62[36. (1) In  the   discharge  of  its  functions,  the   Commission  shall   be   guided  
   by the principles  of natural  justice  and,  subject to the  other  pro 
   visions  of this Act and  of any  rules  made by  the  Central   Government, the  
   Commission shall  have   the powers to regulate its own procedure.
(34)
 (2)  The  Commission shall  have,  for the  purposes of discharging its functions 
  under  this Act, the same powers as are  vested in a Civil Court  under  the 
	 	 Code	 	 of	 Civil	 Procedure,	 1908	 	 	(5	 	of	 	1908),	 	 	while	 	trying	 	a	 	suit,	 	in 
	 	 respect	of		the		following	matters,	namely:-
  (a)  summoning and  enforcing  the  attendance of any  person and 
    examining him on oath;
  (b)  requiring  the discovery and  production of documents; 
	 	 (c)	 receiving		evidence	on	affidavit;
  (d)  issuing  commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
  (e)  requisitioning, subject  to  the  provisions   of sections 123  and  124  
	 	 	 	 of		the	 Indian	Evidence	Act,	1872		 (1	of	1872),		 any		 public	record		 or 
	 	 	 	 document	or	copy	of	such	record	or	document	from	any	office.
	 (3)		 The	 	 Commission	 	may	 	call	 	upon	 	such	 	 	experts,	 	from	 	the	 	 	fields	 	of 
  economics, commerce, accountancy,  international trade   or  from  any 
  other discipline as it deems necessary to assist the Commission in the 
  conduct of any inquiry by it.
	 (4)		 The	Commission	may	direct	any	person:
  (a)  to  produce before   the  Director  General or  the  Secretary or  an  
officer	authorized	by	it,	such		books,		or	other		documents	in	the		custody	
or	under		the	control	of	such		person	so	directed	as	may	be	specified	or	
described in the  direction,  being  documents relating  to  any  trade,  the  
examination of which may be required for the purposes of this Act;
  (b)  to  furnish  to  the  Director  General or  the  Secretary or  any  other  
officer	authorized	by	it,	as	respects	the	trade		or	such		other		information	
as may be in his  possession in relation  to the  trade  carried  on  by such  
person, as may be required for the purposes of this Act.]
63	37.		[Omitted	by	the Competition		(Amendment)	Act,	2007]	(39	of	2007	with	effect	from 
	 		12th	October	2007)
63			 Prior	to	omission,	section	37	read	as	under:-	
 “  Review of orders of Commission
 Any person aggrieved by an order of the Commission from which an appeal is allowed by this  
 Act but no appeal has been preferred, may, within thirty days from the date of the order, apply  
 to the Commission for review of its order and the Commission may make such order thereon  
	 as	it	thinks	fit:
	 Provided	 that	 the	 Commission	 may	 entertain	 a	 review	 application	 after	 the	 expiry	 of	 the	 said 
	 period	 of	thirty	days,	if	it	is	satisfied	that	the	applicant	was	prevented	by	sufficient	cause	from 
	 preferring	the	application	in	time:
	 Provided	 further	 that	 no	 order	 shall	 be	 modified	 or	 set	 aside	 without	 giving	 an	 opportunity	 of
 
 being heard to the person in whose favour the order is given and the Director General where  
 he was a party to the proceedings.”
(35)
Rectification of orders
38.  (1)  With a view to rectifying any  mistake apparent from the  record, the    
  Commission may amend any order passed by it under  the provisions of this  
  Act.
 (2)  Subject to the other  provisions of this Act, the Commission may make— 
	 	 (a)	 an	amendment	under		sub-section	(1)	of	its	own	motion;
  (b)  an  amendment for rectifying any  such  mistake which has  been  
   brought  to its notice  by any party to the order.
Explanation.—-	For	the		removal		of	doubts,	it	is	hereby	declared	that		the		Commission	
shall  not,  while rectifying any  mistake apparent from record, amend substantive part  
of its order passed under  the provisions of this Act.
64 [Execution of orders of Commission imposing monetary penalty]
65[39.(1) If a person fails to pay  any  monetary penalty  imposed on him under  this 
  Act, the  Commission shall  proceed to recover such  penalty,  in such  
	 	 manner	as	may	be	specified	by	the	regulations.
 (2)  In a case where  the  Commission is of the  opinion  that  it would be 
  expedient to recover the penalty  imposed under  this Act in accordance with 
	 	 the	 	 provisions	 of	 the	 	Income-tax	Act,	 1961	 (43	 of	 1961),	 	it	 may	 	make	 	a 
	 	 reference	 to	 this	 effect	 	to	 the	 	concerned	 income-tax	 authority	 	under	 that 
  Act for recovery of the  penalty  as tax due  under  the said Act.
	 (3)		 Where		 a	reference	has		 been	made	by	the	Commission	under		 sub-section 
  (2) for recovery of penalty,  the  person upon  whom  the  penalty  has  been  
  imposed shall be deemed to be the assessee in default  under  the Income 
	 	 T ax	 Act,	1961	(43	of	1961)		and		the		provisions	contained	in	sections	221		to 
	 	 227,		 228A,		229,		231		and	232		of	the		said		Act	and		the		Second	Schedule 
  to that  Act and  any  rules  made there  under  shall,  in so  far as may  be, 
  apply  as if the  said  provisions  were  the provisions of this Act and referred 
	 	 to	 sums	 by	 way	 of	 penalty	 	 imposed	 under	 	 this	Act	 instead	 of	 to	 income- 
64			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Execution	of	orders	of	Commission”
65			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “   Every order passed by the Commission under this Act shall be enforced by the Commission  
 in the same manner as if it were a decree or order made by a High Court or the principal civil  
 court in a suit pending therein and it shall be lawful for the Commission to send, in the event  
 of its inability to execute it, such order to the High Court or the principal civil court, as the case  
 may  be, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction,—
	 (a)	 in	 the	case	of	an	order	against	a	person	referred	to	in	sub-clause	(iii)	or	sub-clause	(vi)	or 
	 	 subclause	 (vii)	of	clause	(l)	of	section	2,	the	registered	office	or	the	sole	or	principal	place 
	 	 of	 business	of	the	person	in	India	or	where	the	person	has	also	a	subordinate	office,	that 
	 	 subordinate	office,	is	situated;
 (b) in the case of an order against any other person, the place, where the person concerned  
  voluntarily  resides  or carries on business or personally works for gain, is situated, and  
  thereupon the court to which the order is so sent shall execute the order as if it were a  
  decree or order sent to it for execution.”
(36)
	 	 tax	 	 and	 	 	 	sums	 	imposed	 by	 way	 of	 penalty,	 	fine,	 and	 interest	 under	 	the	 	 
	 	 Income–tax	 Act,	1961		(43		of	1961)		and		to	the		Commission	instead	of	the		
	 	 Assessing	Officer.
Explanation 1 –	 Any	reference	to	sub-section	(2)	or	sub-section	(6)	of	section	220	of	
the	income-tax	Act,	1961		(43	of	1961),		in	the		said		provisions	of	that		Act	or	the		rules	
made	thereunder	shall	be	construed	as	references	to	sections	43	to	45	of	this	Act.
Explanation 2 	 –		The		T ax		Recovery	Commissioner		and		the		T ax		Recovery	Officer	
referred	to	in	the	Income-tax	Act,	1961		(43	of	1961)		shall		be		deemed	to	be		the		T ax	
Recovery	Commissioner	and	the		T ax	Recovery	Officer	for	the		 purposes	of	recovery	
of  sums  imposed by  way  of  penalty   under  this  Act  and  reference made by  the 
Commission	under		sub-section	(2)	would	amount	to	drawing		of		a	certificate		by	the	
T ax	Recovery	Officer	as	far	as	demand	relating	to	penalty		under		this	Act.
Explanation 3 –	Any	reference	to	appeal	in	Chapter	XVIID	and		the	Second	Schedule	to	 	
the		Income-tax	Act,		1961		(43		of		1961),		shall		be		construed	as	a		reference	to	appeal	
before		the	Competition		Appellate		Tribunal	under		section	53B	of	this	Act.]
6640.	 	 	[Omitted	 by	the Competition	 	(Amendment)	Act,	 2007]	 (39	 of	 2007	 with	 effect	 
	 					from	12th	October	2007)
66			 Prior	to	omission,	section	40	read	as	under:-
	 “Any	 person	aggrieved	by	any	decision	or	order	of	the	Commission	may	file	an	appeal	to	the 
 Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or order of the  
	 Commission	 to	him	on	one	or	more	of	the	grounds	specified	in	section	100	of	the	Code	of	Civil 
	 Procedure,	 1908	 (5	 of	 1908):	 Provided	 that	 the	 Supreme	 Court	 may,	if	 it	 is	 satisfied	 that	 the 
	 appellant	 was	prevented	by	sufficient	cause	from	filing	the	appeal	within	the	said	period,	allow 
	 it	 to	be	filed	within	a	further	period	 not	exceeding	 sixty	days:	Provided	further	that	no	appeal 
 shall lie against any decision or order of the Commission made with the consent of the parties.”
(37)
67		 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
CHAPTER  V
DUTIES OF DIRECTOR GENERAL
Director General to investigate contravention
41. (1)   The  Director  General shall,  when  so  directed by  the  Commission,  
  assist  the Commission in investigating into any contravention of the  
  provisions of this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder.
 (2)   The  Director  General  shall  have   all  the  powers as  are   conferred  
	 	 upon	the	Commission	under		subsection	(2)	of	section	36.
	 (3)		 Without	 prejudice	 to	 the	 	provisions	 of	 sub-section	 (2),	 sections	 240	 	and 
	 	 240A 	of	the		 Companies		 Act,		 1956			 (1		 of		 1956),			 so		 far		 as	may		 be,	 
  shall  apply  to  an investigation made  by  the  Director  General or  any 
  other  person  investigating under  his authority,  as they apply to an  
  inspector appointed under  that Act.
67[Explanation.—For	the	purposes	of	this	section,	--
 (a)  the  words  “the Central  Government” under  section 240  of the 
	 	 Companies	 Act,1956	(1	of	1956)	shall	be	construed	as	“the	Commission”;
	 (b)		 the		 word		“Magistrate”		under			section	240A		of		the		Companies	Act,		1956 
	 	 (1	 of1956)	 shall	 be	 construed	 as	 “the	 Chief	 Metropolitan	 	 Magistrate,	 
  Delhi”.]
(38)
CHAPTER  VI 
PENALTIES
Contravention of orders of Commission
68[42.(1) The Commission may cause an inquiry to be made into compliance of its  
  orders or directions made in exercise of its powers under  the Act.
 (2)  If  any  person, without  reasonable clause, fails  to  comply  with  the  
	 	 orders	 or	directions	of	the	Commission	issued	under		sections	27,		28,		31, 
	 	 32,	 	 33,	 	42A	 and	 43A	 of	 the	Act,	 he	 shall	 be	 punishable	 with	 fine	 which 
  may extend to rupees one lakh  for  each   day   during   which  such  
	 	 non-compliance	 occurs,	 	 subject	 	 to	 	 a	 maximum	 	 of	 rupees	 ten	 crore,	 
  as the Commission may determine.
 (3)  If any person does not comply with the orders or directions issued, or fails 
	 	 to	 pay	the			 fine			 imposed			 under			 sub-section		 (2),		 he			 shall,			 without 
	 	 prejudice	 	 to	 	 any	 proceeding	 under	 	 section	 39,	 	 be	 	 punishable	 with 
	 	 imprisonment	 for	 a	 term	 	which	 may	 	extend	 to	 three	 	years,	 or	 with	 fine 
	 	 which	 may		 extend	to	rupees	twenty-five	crore,		 or	with	both,	as	the	Chief	 
	 	 Metropolitan		Magistrate,	Delhi	may	deem	fit:
  Provided that  the  Chief Metropolitan  Magistrate, Delhi shall  not take 
	 	 cognizance	 of	 any	 offence	 under	 	 this	 section	 save	 on	 a	 complaint	 	 filed 
	 	 by	the	Commission	or	any	of	its	officers	authorized	by	it.]
69[Compensation in case of contravention of orders of Commission]
70[42A.   Without  prejudice  to  the   provisions  of  this  Act,  any   person  may
make an application to the  Appellate Tribunal for an order for the recovery 
of compensation from any  enterprise for any  loss  or damage shown  to have  
been suffered, by  such  person as a  result  of the  said  enterprise violating  
68			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “(1) Without prejudice to  the provisions of  this Act, if any person contravenes, without any  
  reasonable  ground, any order of the Commission, or any condition or restriction subject  
  to which any approval, sanction, direction or exemption in relation to any matter has been  
  accorded, given, made or granted under this Act or fails to pay the penalty imposed under 
  this Act, he shall be liable to be detained in civil prison for a term which may extend to  
  one year, unless in the meantime the Commission directs his release and he shall also  
  be liable to a penalty not exceeding rupees ten lakhs.
 (2) The Commission may, while making an order under this Act, issue such directions to any  
  person or authority, not inconsistent with this Act, as it thinks necessary or desirable, for  
  the proper implementation or execution of the order, and any person who commits  
  breach of, or fails to comply with, any obligation imposed on him under such direction,  
  may be ordered by the Commission to be detained in civil prison for a term not exceeding  
  one year unless in the meantime the Commission directs his release and he shall also be  
  liable to a penalty not exceeding rupees ten lakhs.”
69			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
70			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
(39)
directions issued by the  Commission or contravening, without any  reason -
able ground,  any decision or order  of the Commission issued under  sections 
27,	28,	31,	32	and		 33	or	any		 condition		 or	restriction		 subject	to	which	any	 	
approval,  sanction, direction or  exemption  in  relation   to  any  matter   has   
been  accorded,  given,   made  or granted under  this Act or delaying  in car-
rying  out such  orders  or directions of the Commission.]
Penalty for failure to comply with directions of Commission and Director General
71[43.   If  any  person fails to comply,  without  reasonable cause, with a  direction   
  given by—
	 	 	 (a)	 the	Commission	under		sub-sections	(2)	and		(4)	of	section		36;	or
	 	 	 (b)		 the	 Director	General	while	exercising	powers	referred	to	in	sub-section 
    (2)of section 41,
such		person	shall		be		punishable	with	fine	which	may		extend	to	rupees	one		lakh	for	
each day during which such  failure continues subject to a maximum  of rupees one  
crore,  as may be determined by the Commission.]
72[Power to impose penalty for non-furnishing of information on  combinations]
73[43A. If any person or enterprise who fails to give notice  to the Commission under  
	 	 sub-	 section(2)		 of			 section		 6,		 the			 Commission		 shall			 impose		 on			 such 
  person  or enterprise a penalty  which  may  extend to one  percent,  of the 
  total turnover  or the assets,  whichever is higher, of such  a combination.]
Penalty for making false statement or omission to furnish material information
44.  If any person, being  a party to a combination,—
 (a)   makes a statement which is false  in any material  particular,  or knowing it 
   to be false;  or
 (b)  omits to state any material  particular  knowing it to be material,
 such  person shall  be  liable to a penalty  which shall  not be  less  than rupees  
	 fifty	 lakhs		but	which	may		extend	to	rupees	one		crore,		as	may		be	determined	by	 
 the Commission.
71			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “If any person fails to comply with a direction given by—
	 (a)		 the	Commission	under	sub-section	(5)	of	section	36;	or
	 (b)		 the	 Director	General	while	exercising	powers	referred	to	in	sub-section	(2)	of	section	41, 
  the Commission shall impose on such person a penalty of rupees one lakh for each day  
  during which such failure continues.”
72			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
73			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007
(40)
Penalty for offences in relation to furnishing of information
74[45.(1) Without prejudice to the  provisions of section 44,  if a person, who  
  furnishes or is   required   to   furnish   under    this   Act   any   particulars,  
  documents   or   any information,—
  (a)  makes any  statement or furnishes any  document  which he  knows 
   or has  reason to believe  to be false  in any material  particular;  or
  (b)  omits to state any material  fact knowing it to be material;  or
  (c)  wilfully alters,  suppresses or destroys any document which is 
   required to be furnished as aforesaid,
such		person	shall		be		punishable	with	fine		which		may		extend	to		rupees	one	crore	 	
as may be determined by the Commission.]
	 (2)		 Without	 prejudice	to	the	provisions	of	sub-section(1),	the	Commission	may 
	 	 also	pass	such		other	order	as	it	deems	fit.
Power to impose lesser penalty
46.		 The	 Commission	 may,	 	 if	 it	 is	 satisfied	 that	 any	 producer,	 seller,	 	 distributor, 
 trader or  service  provider   included   in  any  cartel,   which  is  alleged to  have 
 violated section 3, has  made a full and  true disclosure in respect of the alleged  
 violations and  such  disclosure is vital, impose upon such  producer, seller, 
	 distributor,		 trader		or	service	provider		a	lesser	penalty		as	it	may		deem	fit,		than 
	 leviable		under		this	 Act	or		the	rules	or	the	regulations:
 
75[Provided that lesser penalty  shall not be imposed by the Commission in cases 
	 where	 	 the	 	 report	 	 of	 investigation	 directed	 under	 	 section	 26	 	 has	 	 been 
 received before making of such disclosure.]
 Provided further  that  lesser penalty  shall  be  imposed by the  Commission  
 only  in respect of a producer, seller,  distributor,  trader  or service provider  
 included  in the cartel,  who 76[has] made the full, true and  vital disclosures  
 under this section.
74		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	:
 “(1)  Without prejudice to the provisions of section 44, if any person, who furnishes or is  
  required to furnish under this Act any particulars, documents or any information—
 (a) makes any statement or furnishes any document which he knows or has reason to  
  believe to be false in any material particular; or
 (b) omits to state any material fact knowing it to be material; or
 (c) wilfully alters, suppresses or destroys any document which is required to be furnished as  
  aforesaid, the Commission shall impose on such person a penalty which may extend to  
  rupees ten lakhs.”
75		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “Provided	 that	 lesser	 penalty	 shall	 not	 be	 imposed	 by	 the	 Commission	 in	 cases	 where	 
 proceedings for the violation of any of the provisions of this Act or the rules or has the regulations 
	 have	 been	 instituted	 or	 any	 investigation	 has	 been	 directed	 to	 be	 made	 under	 section	 26	 
	 before	making	of	such	disclosure:”
76		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“first”
(41)
77[Provided also  that  lesser penalty  shall  not be  imposed by the  Commission if the   
person  making   the   disclosure does  not  continue  to  cooperate  with  the Commis-
sion till the completion of the proceedings before  the Commission.]
Provided also		 that		 the		 Commission	may,		if		 it	is		 satisfied			 that		 such			 producer,	
seller,  distributor,  trader   or  service provider  included   in  the  cartel  had  in  the 
course of proceedings,—
 (a)  not complied  with the condition  on which the lesser penalty  was  imposed  
  by the Commission; or
 (b)  had  given false  evidence; or
 (c)  the disclosure made is not vital,
and  thereupon such  producer, seller,  distributor,  trader  or service provider  may be 
tried for the offence  with respect to which the lesser penalty  was  imposed and shall  
also  be  liable to the  imposition  of penalty  to which such  person has  been liable, had  
lesser penalty  not been imposed.
Crediting sums realised by way of penalties to Consolidated Fund of India
47.  All sums realised by  way  of penalties under  this  Act shall  be  credited to  the  
 Consolidated Fund of India.
Contravention by companies
48. (1)  Where  a person committing  contravention of any  of the  provisions of this 
  Act  or of any  rule, regulation, order  made or direction  issued thereunder  
  is a company, every person who, at the  time the  contravention was 
  committed, was  in charge of, and  was  responsible to the  company  for  the 
  conduct of the  business of the company, as  well  as  the   company,  shall  
  be  deemed   to  be   guilty  of  the contravention  and   shall  be   liable   to 
	 	 be	proceeded		against		and			punished	accordingly:
  Provided	that		 nothing		 contained	in	this	sub-section	shall		 render	any	such 
  person liable  to  any  punishment  if  he  proves that  the  contravention  was 
  committed  without his knowledge or that  he  had  exercised  all due 
  diligence to prevent the commission of such  contravention.
	 (2)		 Notwithstanding	 anything	 contained	 in	 sub-section	 (1),	 where	 a 
  contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, regulation,  
  order  made or direction issued thereunder has  been committed  by a 
  company and  it is proved  that  the contravention  has    taken    place    with 
  the   consent  or   connivance  of,   or   is attributable to  any  neglect on  the 
	 	 part		 of,	any		director,		manager,		secretary		or	other		officer	of	the		company, 
	 	 such	 	 director,	 	manager,	secretary	or	other	 	officer	shall	 	also	 	be	deemed 
  to be  guilty of that  contravention and  shall  be  liable  to be proceeded  
  against and punished accordingly.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,—
	 (a)	 ”company”	 means	 	 a	 body	 	 corporate	 and	 	 includes	 a	 firm	 or	 other 
  association of individuals; and
	 (b)	 ”director”,	in	relation	to	a	firm,	means	a	partner	in	the	firm.
77			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
(42)
CHAPTER  VII 
COMPETITION ADVOCACY
Competition Advocacy 
49. 78[(1) The Central  Government may,  in formulating  a policy on competition  
  (including review   of   laws   related  to   competition)  or  any   other 
  matter,  and   a   State Government may,  in formulating  a policy on  
  competition or on any  other  matter, as  the  case may  be,  make   a 
  reference to  the  Commission for its  opinion  on possible  effect  of  such 
  policy  on  competition  and   on  the  receipt   of  such   a reference, the 
  Commission shall, within sixty days  of making  such reference, give its 
  opinion to the Central  Government, or the State Government, as the case 
	 	 may	be,	which	may	thereafter	take		further	action		as	it	deems	fit.]
	 (2)		 The		 opinion	given		by	the		Commission	under		sub-section	(1)	shall		not	be 
  binding upon  the Central Government 79	[or the  State Government, as the 
  case may  be] in formulating such policy.
 (3)   The   Commission  shall   take   suitable measures  80[***]  for  the 
  promotion of competition advocacy, creating awareness and imparting  
  training about competition issues.
78			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “(1)   In formulating a policy on competition (including review of laws related to competition), the 
  Central Government may make a reference to the Commission for its opinion on possible  
  effect of such policy on competition and on receipt of such a reference, the Commission  
  shall, within sixty days of making such reference, give its opinion to the Central  
	 	 Government,	which	may	thereafter	formulate	the	policy	as	it	deems	fit.”
79			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
80			 The	words	“as	may	be	prescribed”	omitted	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
(43)
CHAPTER  VIII
FINANCE, ACCOUNTS  AND AUDIT 
Grants by Central Government
50.		 The	 	 Central	 	Government	 may,	 	after	 	due	 	appropriation	made	 by	Parliament 
 by law in this behalf, make  to the Commission grants of such  sums of money 
	 as	the	Government	may	think	fit	for	being		utilised	for	the	purposes	of	this	 Act.
Constitution of Fund
51. (1)  There  shall  be  constituted a fund to be  called  the  “Competition  Fund”   
  and there  shall be credited thereto—
  (a)  all Government grants received by the Commission;
  81(b)	[Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	Act,	2007]	
  (c)  the fees received under  this Act;
  (d)  the interest accrued on the amounts referred to in 82[clauses (a) and (c)].  
 (2)  The Fund shall be applied  for meeting—
  (a)  the  salaries  and  allowances  payable  to   the  Chairperson  and 
   other Members and the  administrative expenses  including the salaries,  
   allowances and  pension payable to the Director General, Additional,  
   Joint, Deputy   or  Assistant  Directors   General,  the Registrar and 
	 	 	 officers		and	other		employees	of	the	Commission;
  (b)  the other  expenses of the Commission in connection with the discharge  
   of its functions and for the purposes of this Act.
 (3) The   Fund   shall   be   administered  by  a  committee  of  such   Members   
  of  the Commission as may be determined by the Chairperson.
	 (4)	The	 	 committee	 appointed	 under	 	 sub-section	 (3)	 shall	 	 spend	 monies	 
  out   of the Fund for carrying out the objects for which the Fund has  been  
  constituted.
Accounts and Audit
52.		 (1)	 The	 	 Commission	 shall	 	 maintain	 	 proper	 	 accounts	 and	 	 other	 	 relevant 
  records and prepare an annual statement of accounts in such  form as may 
  be  prescribed by the Central  Government in consultation with the 
	 	 Comptroller	and		 Auditor-General	of	India.
81			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(b)	of	section	51(1)	read	as	under	:-
 “the monies received as costs from parties to proceedings before the Commission;”
82			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“clauses	(a)	to	(c)”
(44)
 (2) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Comptroller  and 
	 	 Auditor-	 General		of			India			at			such			intervals			as		may			be			specified		by 
  him  and   any expenditure  incurred   in  connection  with  such   audit   shall  
	 	 be		 payable		 by		 the	Commission	to	the	Comptroller		 and	Auditor-General	of 
  India.
Explanation.—For the removal  of doubts, it is hereby declared that  the orders of the 
Commission, being  matters appealable to the  83[Appellate  Tribunal  or the  Supreme 
Court], shall not be subject to audit under  this section.
	 (3)	 The	 Comptroller	 	 and	 	 Auditor-General	 of	 India	 and	 	 any	 other	 	 person 
  appointed by him in  connection with the  audit  of the  accounts of the  
  Commission shall  have  the  same  rights,  privileges  and  authority  in  
	 	 connection	 with	 such	 	 audit	 	 as	 the	 Comptroller	 	 and	 	Auditor-General	 	 of 
  India generally has, in connection with the audit  of  the  Government 
  accounts and,   in  particular,  shall  have   the  right  to demand  the 
  production  of  books,   accounts, connected   vouchers  and   other 
	 	 documents	and		papers	and		to	inspect	any	of	the	offices	of	the	Commission.
	 (4)		 The	 	 accounts	 of	 the	 	Commission	 as	 	certified	 	by	 	the	 	Comptroller	 	and 
	 	 Auditor-	 General	of	India	or	any	other		person	appointed	by	him	in	this	behalf 
  together with the  audit  report  thereon shall  be  forwarded annually  to the 
  Central  Government and  that  Government shall  cause the  same  to  
	 	 be		laid		before			each	House	of	Parliament.
Furnishing of returns, etc., to Central Government
53.  (1)  The  Commission shall  furnish  to the  Central  Government at  such  time 
and  in such  form and manner as may be prescribed or as the Central  Gov-
ernment may direct,   such   returns and   statements  and   such   particulars  
in  regard  to  any proposed  or  existing   measures  for  the   promotion   of  
competition advocacy, creating  awareness   and   imparting   training   about  
competition issues,  as  the Central  Government may, from time to time, 
require.
 (2)  The Commission shall prepare once  in every  year,  in such  form and  at such
time as may  be  prescribed, an  annual report  giving  a  true  and  full account 
of  its activities during  the  previous year  and  copies of the  report  shall  be  
forwarded to the Central  Government.
	 (3)		 A 	copy	of	the	report	 	received	under	 	sub-section	(2)	shall	be	laid,	as	soon 
	 	 as	may	be	after	it	is	received,	before		each	House	of	Parliament.
83		Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Supreme	Court”
(45)
84		“Chapter	VIIIA”	Inserted	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
84[CHAPTER VIIIA 
APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
Establishment of Appellate Tribunal:
53A. (1)  The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 
410 of the companies Act, 2013 shall, on and from the commencement of Part XIV of 
Chapter VI of the Finance Act, 2017, be the Appellate Tribunal for the purpose of this 
Act and the said appellate Tribunal shall –
  (a)  to hear  and  dispose of appeals against any  direction  issued or  
   decision made or order passed by the  Commission under  sub-sections  
   (2) and  (6) of section 26,  section 27,  section 28,  section 31,  section 
   32,  section 33, section 38,  section 39,  section 43,  section 43A,  
   section 44,  section 45 or section 46 of the Act;
  (b)  to adjudicate on claim for compensation that may arise  from the 
	 	 	 findings	 of	the		 Commission		 or		 the		 orders	of		 the		Appellate			 Tribunal 
	 	 	 in		 an		 appeal	against	any	finding	of	the	Commission	or	under		 section 
   42A  or under  sub- section(2) of section 53Q  of this Act, and  pass 
   orders for the  recovery of compensation under  section 53N of this Act.
Appeal to Appellate Tribunal
53B. (1) The  Central   Government  or  the   State  Government or  a  local  authority 
  or enterprise or any person, aggrieved  by any direction,  decision or order 
	 	 referred	 to	in	clause	(a)	of	section	53A	may	prefer	an	appeal	to	the	Appellate 
  Tribunal.
	 (2)		 Every		 appeal	under		 sub-section	(1)	shall	be		 filed	within	a		 period		 of	sixty	
days  from the  date  on which a copy  of the  direction  or decision or order  
made by the Commission is received by the Central  Government or the  State 
Government or a local authority  or enterprise or any  person referred to in that  
sub-section	and		it	shall	be	in	such		form	and		be	accompanied	by	such		fee	
as	may	be	prescribed:
Provided that  the  Appellate  Tribunal  may  entertain  an  appeal after the  
expiry	of	the	said	period	of	sixty	days		if	it	is	satisfied	that	there		was		sufficient	
cause	for	not	filing	it	within	that	period.
	 (3)		 On	 receipt		of	an		appeal	under		sub-section	(1),	the		Appellate		Tribunal		may,	
after giving the parties to the  appeal, an  opportunity  of being heard, pass 
such		 orders	thereon		 as	it		 thinks			 fit,		 confirming,			 modifying		 or		 setting	 	 	
aside  the   direction, decision or order appealed against.
(46)
 (4) The  Appellate Tribunal  shall  send a  copy  of  every   order  made by  it to   
  the Commission and  the parties to the appeal.
	 (5)		The	 	 appeal	 filed	 before	 	 the	 	 Appellate	 	 Tribunal	 	 under	 	 sub-section	 (1) 
  shall  be dealt  with by it as expeditiously as possible and  endeavour shall  
  be  made by it to dispose of the appeal within six months from the date  of 
  receipt  of the appeal.
[Omitted by the Finance Act, 2017, w.e.f. 26th May, 2017]
Awarding compensation
53N.(1) Without   prejudice  to  any  other   provisions contained  in  this  Act,  the  
Central  Government or a State Government or a local authority  or any 
enterprise or any person may make  an application to the Appellate  Tribunal  
to	adjudicate	on	claim	for		compensation	that		may		arise		from		the		findings	 	
of  the  Commission or  the orders  of  the   Appellate   Tribunal   in  an   appeal   
against		 any			 findings			 of		 the	Commission	or	under		 section	42A	or	under	 	
sub-section(2)	of	section	53Q		of	the	Act,	and		to	pass	an		order		for	the		re-
covery of compensation from any enterprise for any loss  or damage shown  to 
have  been suffered, by the Central  Government or a State Government or a 
local authority  or any  enterprise or any  person as a result  of any contraven-
tion of the provisions of Chapter II, having  been committed  by enterprise.
	 (2)		Every			 application	made		 under			 sub-section		 (1)		 shall			 be		 accompanied 
	 	 by	 the	findings		 of	the	Commission,	if	any,		and		 also		 be		 accompanied	with 
  such  fees  as may be prescribed.
 (3)  The Appellate  Tribunal may,  after an inquiry made into the allegations 
mentioned	in		the		application	made		under			sub-section		(1),		pass		an	order	 	 	 
directing   the enterprise to make payment to the  applicant, of the  amount de-
termined by it as realisable from the enterprise as compensation for the loss 
or damage caused to the  applicant as a  result  of any  contravention  of the  
provisions	of	Chapter	II	having		been	committed		by	such		enterprise:
  Provided that  the Appellate Tribunal  may  obtain  the recommendations of 
  the Commission before  passing an order of compensation.
	 (4)		Where	 	 any	 	 loss	 	 or	 damage	 referred	 to	 in	 sub-section	 (1)	 is	 caused	 to
numerous persons having  the  same interest, one  or more  of such  persons 
may,  with the permission of the Appellate Tribunal,  make  an application 
under		that	sub-section	for		and			on		behalf			of,		or		for		the		benefit		of,		the	 	
persons	so	interested,	and	thereupon,	the	provisions	of	rule	8	of	Order	1	of	
the	First	Schedule	to	the	Code		of	Civil	Procedure,		1908		(5		of	1908),		shall	 	
apply		subject	to		the		modification		that	every		reference	therein		to	a		suit	or	
decree shall  be  construed as a  reference to the  application  before   the  
Appellate   Tribunal  and   the  order   of  the  Appellate  Tribunal thereon.
Explanation.—For the removal  of doubts, it is hereby declared that—
 (a)   an  application may  be  made for compensation before  the  Appellate   
(47)
Tribunal only  after  either  the  Commission or  the  Appellate  Tribunal  on  
appeal	under	clause	(a)		 of		 sub-section(1)	of		 section	53A	of		 the		Act,		 has	 	 	
determined in  a proceeding before  it that  violation of the provisions  of the  
Act	has		taken		place,	or	if	provisions	of	section		42A	or	sub-section(2)	of		sec-
tion	53Q		of	the		Act	are	attracted.
	 (b)		enquiry	 	 	 to	 	be	 	 	conducted	 	under	 	 	sub-section(3)	 	shall	 	 	be	 	 	for	 	the	 
  purpose  of determining  the  eligibility  and   quantum  of  compensation  due 
  to  a  person applying   for  the   same,   and  not  for  examining afresh  the  
	 	 findings	 	 	 of	 	the	 Commission	 or	 the	 	Appellate	 	Tribunal	 	on	 	whether	 any 
  violation  of the  Act has  taken  place.
Procedures and powers of Appellate Tribunal
53O.(1) The Appellate  Tribunal shall  not be  bound  by the  procedure  laid down  in 
the	Code	of	Civil	Procedure,	1908		(5	of	1908),		but	shall		be		guided		by	the	 	
principles  of natural  justice  and,  subject to the  other  provisions of this Act 
and  of any  rules made by  the  Central  Government, the  Appellate  Tribunal  
shall  have  power  to regulate its own procedure including   the  places at  
which they  shall  have  their sittings.
 (2)  The  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  have,  for the  purposes  of discharging its  
  functions  under  this Act, the  same powers as are  vested in a civil court 
  under  the  Code  of
	 	 Civil	 Procedure,	1908		(5	of	1908)		while	trying	a		suit	in	respect	of	the		following 
	 	 matters,	namely:-
  a)  summoning and  enforcing  the  attendance of any  person and  examining 
   him on oath;
  b)  requiring  the discovery and  production of documents;
	 	 c)		 receiving		evidence	on	affidavit;
  d)  subject  to the  provisions of sections 123  and  124  of the  Indian  Evidence 
	 	 	 Act,		 1872		(1		of	1872),		requisitioning	any		public		record		or		document	or 
	 	 	 copy	of	such		record		or	document	from	any	office;
  e)  issuing  commissions for the examination of witnesses or documents;
  f) reviewing   its decisions;
  g)  dismissing a representation for default  or deciding  it ex parte;
  h)  setting  aside any  order  of dismissal of any  representation for default   
   or any order passed by it ex parte;
  i) any other  matter  which may be prescribed.
 (3)   Every  proceedings before  the  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  be  deemed to be
judicial	proceedings	within	the	meaning	of	sections	193	and		228,	and		for	the	
purposes	of	section	196,		of	the		Indian		Penal	Code		(45	of	1860)		and		the	 	
Appellate  Tribunal shall  be  deemed to be  a civil court  for the  purposes 
(48)
of	 section	 195	 	 and	 	 Chapter	 XXVI	 of	 the	 Code	 	 or	 Criminal	 Procedure,	 
1973	(2	of	1974).
Execution of orders of Appellate Tribunal
53P.(1) Every order  made by the  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  be  enforced by it in  t h e 
  same manner as if it  were  a decree made by a court  in a suit pending 
therein,  and  it shall be lawful for the Appellate Tribunal to send, in case of its inability 
to	execute	such		order,		to	the	court	within	the	local	limits	of	whose	jurisdiction,-
	 	 a) 		 in	the		case	of	an		order		against	a		company,	the		registered	office	of	the		
   company is situated; or
  b)  in the  case of an  order  against any other  person, place  where the 
   person concerned  voluntarily resides or carries on business or 
   personally works for gain, is situated.
	 (2)		Notwithstanding	 anything	 	 	 contained	 in	 	 sub-section	 	 (1),	 	 the	 	 Appellate 
  Tribunal may  transmit  any order  made by it to a  civil court  having  local  
  jurisdiction  and such civil court shall execute the order as if it were a decree  
  made by that court.
Contravention of orders of Appellate Tribunal
53Q.(1) Without prejudice  to  the   provisions  of  this  Act,  if  any   person contravenes, 
without any reasonable ground,  any  order  of the  Appellate  Tribunal,  
he  shall  be liable for a penalty  of not exceeding rupees one  crore  or 
imprisonment for a term up  to three  years or with both  as the  Chief 
Metropolitan		Magistrate,	Delhi	may	deem	fit:
Provided that  the  Chief Metropolitan  Magistrate, Delhi shall  not take  cogni-
zance	of	any	offence	punishable	under		this	sub-section,	save	on	a	complaint	 	
made	by	an	officer	authorized	by	the	Appellate		Tribubnal.
 (2)  Without  prejudice  to  the   provisions  of  this  Act,  any   person  may   make
an application to the  Appellate  Tribunal  for an  order  for the recovery 
of compensation from any  enterprise for any  loss  or damage shown  to have 
been suffered, by such person as a result  of the  said  enterprise contraven -
ing, without any   reasonable  ground,  any  order   of  the   Appellate   Tribunal   
or  delaying   in carrying out such  orders of the Appellate Tribunal.
53R.		 [Omitted	by	the	finance	 Act,	2017,	w.e.f.	26th	May,	2017]
Right to legal representation
53S.(1)  A  person preferring  an  appeal to the  Appellate  Tribunal  may  either  appear
in	person	or	authorize	one		or	more		chartered	accountants	or	company	secre-
taries	or	cost		accountants	or	legal	practitioners	or	any	of	its	officers	to	present	
his or its case before  the Appellate  Tribunal.
 (2)  The  Central   Government  or  a  State  Government or  a  local  authority   or
any enterprise  preferring  an  appeal to the  Appellate  Tribunal  may  
authorize	one		or	more		chartered	accountants	or	company	secretaries	or	cost	 	
(49)
accountants	or	legal	practitioners	or	any		of	its	officers		to	act		as	presenting	
officers	 	and	 	every	 	person	 so	 	authorized	 	may	 	present	 	the	 	case	 	with	 	
respect  to  any  appeal  before   the Appellate  Tribunal.
	 (3)		The	 	 Commission	 may	 	 authorize	 one	 	 or	 more	 	 chartered	 accountants	 or 
  company secretaries  or cost  accountants or legal  practitioners or any  of its  
	 	 officers	 	 to	 act	 as	 presenting	 officers	 and	 every	 	person	 so	 authorized	 may 
  present the case with respect to any appeal before  the Appellate Tribunal.
Explanation –  The  expressions  “chartered accountant” or  “company  secretary” or 
“cost   accountant”  or  “legal  practitioner”   shall   have   the   meanings  respectively 
assigned to them  in the Explanation	to	section	35.
Appeal to Supreme Court
53T.  The  Central  Government or any  State  Government or the  Commission or
any statutory   authority  or  any   local   authority   or  any   enterprise  or  
any   person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Appellate  Tribunal may 
file	an	appeal	to	the		Supreme	Court		within		sixty		days		from		the		date			 of	 	
communication of  the decision or order of the Appellate  Tribunal to them;
Provided	that		the		Supreme	court		may,		if		it	is		satisfied	that		the		applicant	
was	 prevented	 by	 sufficient	 cause	 from	 filing	 the	 appeal	 within	 the	 said 
period,		allow	it	to	be	filed	after	the	expiry	of	the	said	period	of	sixty	days.
Power to Punish for contempt
53U.  The  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  have,  and  exercise, the  same jurisdiction,
powers and  authority  in  respect of  contempt of  itself  as a  High  Court  has   
and  may exercise and,  for this  purpose,  the  provisions of the  Contempt 
of	Courts		 Act,	1971	(70	of	1971)	shall	have		 effect	subject	to	modifications	
that,--
  (a)  the  reference therein  to a  High Court  shall  be  construed as including  
   a reference to the Appellate  Tribunal;
	 	 (b)		 the		 references	to	the		Advocate-General	in	section	15	of	the		 said		Act 
	 	 	 shall	 be			construed			as		a			reference		to			such				Law			Officer			as		the 
	 	 	 Central		Government	may,	by	notification,	specify	in	this	behalf.	]
(50)
CHAPTER  IX 
MISCELLANEOUS
Power to exempt
54.			 The	 Central		 Government	may,		by	notification,		 exempt	from	the	application 
  of this Act,  or  any  provision  thereof, and  for  such   period  as it may 
	 	 specify			 in		such		notification—
  (a)  any  class of enterprises if such  exemption is necessary in the  interest 
   of security  of the State or public interest;
  (b)  any  practice  or  agreement arising   out  of  and   in  accordance with 
   any obligation  assumed by India  under  any  treaty,  agreement or 
   convention with any other  country or countries;
  (c) any  enterprise  which  performs  a  sovereign  function   on  behalf   of   
	 	 	 the	Central		Government	or	a	State	Government:
Provided that  in  case an  enterprise is  engaged in  any  activity  including  the activity  
relatable to  the  sovereign functions   of  the  Government,  the  Central Government 
may  grant   exemption only  in  respect of  activity  relatable to  the sovereign functions.
Power of Central Government to issue directions
55.(1)    Without prejudice to the foregoing  provisions  of this Act, the Commission shall,
in exercise of  its  powers or  the  performance of  its  functions   under  this  
Act,  be bound   by  such   directions on  questions of policy,  other  than  those 
relating  to technical and  administrative matters, as  the  Central   Govern-
ment	may		give		in	writing	to	it	from	time	to	time:
Provided  that   the   Commission  shall,   as  far   as  practicable, be   given   
an opportunity   to  express its  views  before   any  direction  is  given  under   
this		sub-	section.
 (2)  The decision of the Central  Government whether a question is one  of policy  
	 	 or	not	shall	be	final.
Power of Central Government to supersede Commission
56.  (1)  If at any time the Central  Government is of the opinion—
  (a)  that on account of circumstances beyond the control of the Commission,  
   it is unable to discharge the functions  or perform  the duties  imposed  
   on it by or under  the provisions of this Act; or
  (b)  that  the  Commission has  persistently made default  in complying  with
any direction   given   by  the   Central   Government  under   this  Act  or  in  
the discharge of the functions or performance of the duties  imposed on it 
by or under  the provisions of this Act and  as a result  of such  default  the 
financial	position		of	the		Commission	or	the		administration	of		the		Com-
mission has  suffered; or
(51)
  (c)  that circumstances exist which render it necessary in the public  
   interest so to do, 
	 the		 Central		 Government	may,		by	notification		 and	for	reasons	to	be		 specified 
 therein, supersede the  Commission for such  period,  not exceeding six months, 
	 as	may	be	specified	in	the	notification:
Provided that		before			issuing			any		such			notification,		the		Central			Government	
shall give a reasonable opportunity  to the Commission to make  representations 
against the  proposed  supersession and  shall  consider representations, if any, 
of the Commission.
	 (2)		Upon		the		publication			of		a		notification		under			sub-section	(1)			 	
  superseding  the Commission,—
  (a)  the Chairperson and other Members  shall as from  the date of 
	 	 	 supersession,	vacate	their	offices	as	such;
  (b)  all the powers, functions  and  duties  which may,  by or under  the 
provisions of this Act, be exercised or discharged by or on behalf  of the 
Commission	shall,			until		the			Commission		is		reconstituted		under			sub-
section  (3),  be exercised and  discharged by the Central Government or 
such  authority  as the Central  Government may specify in this behalf;
  (c)  all  properties  owned   or  controlled   by  the   Commission  shall,   until 
	 	 	 the	 Commission		 is		 reconstituted	under			 sub-section	(3),		 vest		 in		 the	 
   Central  Government.
	 (3)			On		or		before			the			expiration			of		the			period			of		supersession			specified
in		the	notification	issued	 under	 	 subsection	 (1),	 the	 	 Central	 Government	 
shall reconstitute the Commission by a fresh  appointment of its Chairperson 
and  other Members and in such  case any  person who had  vacated his 
office	under		clause	(a)	of	sub-section	(2)	shall	not	be	deemed	to	be	disquali-
fied		for	re-appointment.
		 (4)		The	 	 Central	 	Government	 shall	 	cause	 a	 	notification	 	issued	 under	 	sub- 
  section (1) and  a  full  report  of any  action  taken  under  this  section and 
  the  circumstances leading  to such  action  to be laid before  each House of 
	 	 Parliament	at	the	earliest.
Restriction on  disclosure of information
57.  No information  relating  to any  enterprise, being  an  information  which has  been
obtained by or on behalf  of 
85[the Commission or the  Appellate  Tribunal] for the 
purposes of  this  Act,  shall,  without  the  previous permission  in  writing  of  the 
enterprise, be disclosed otherwise than  in compliance with or for the purposes of 
this Act or any other  law for the time being  in force.
85			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“the	Commission”
(52)
86[Chairperson, Members, Director General, Secretary, officers and other 
employees, etc., to be  public servants]
87[58.The Chairperson and  other  Members and  the Director General, Additional,
Joint,	 Deputy	 or	Assistant	 Directors	 	General	 and	 	Secretary	 and	 	officers	 and	 	
other	employees	of	the	Commission	and		the	Chairperson,	Members,	officers	and	 	
other employees of the  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  be deemed, while acting  or pur-
porting to act  in pursuance of any  of the  provisions of this  Act, to  be  public  ser-
vants	within	the	meaning	of	section	21	of	the	Indian	Penal	Code		(45	of	1860).]
Protection of action taken in good faith
59.  No  suit,  prosecution  or  other   legal  proceedings  shall  lie  against  the
Central		Government		or		Commission	or		any		officer		of		the		Central			Government	
or	 	the	 Chairperson	 or	 any	 Member	 	or	 the	 Director-	 General,	Additional,	 Joint,	
Deputy  or Assistant Directors  General or 
88[the	 Secretary	 or	 officers	 or	 other	 	 	
employees	of	the		Commission	or	the		Chairperson,	Members,		officers		and		other	 	
employees of the Appellate  Tribunal] for anything  which is in good  faith done or 
intended to be done  under  this Act or the rules or regulations made thereunder.
Act to have overriding effect
60.		The	 provisions	 of	 this	 Act	 shall	 	 have	 	 effect	 	 notwithstanding	 anything	 
 inconsistent  therewith contained in any other  law for the time being  in force.
Exclusion of jurisdiction of civil courts
61.		No	civil	court	shall	have		jurisdiction	to	entertain	any	suit	or	proceeding	in	respect
of any  matter which the  
89 [Commission or the  Appellate  Tribunal] is empowered 
by or under  this Act to determine and  no injunction shall be granted by any court 
or other  authority  in respect of any  action  taken  or to be  taken  in pursuance of 
any power  conferred by or under  this Act.
86			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “Members,	 Director	 General,	 Registrar, 
	 officers	and	other	employees,	etc.	of	Commission	to	be	public	servants”
87			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	:
 “The Chairperson and other Members and the Director General, Additional, Joint, Deputy or  
	 Assistant	 Directors	 General	 and	 Registrar	 and	 officers	 and	 other	 employees	 of	 the	 
 Commission shall be deemed, while acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the  
	 provisions	 of	this	Act,	to	be	public	servants	within	the	meaning	of	section	21	of	the	Indian	Penal 
	 Code	(45	of	1860).”
88			 Subs.	 by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“the	Registrar	or	officers	or	other	employees 
 of the Commission”
89			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“Commission”
(53)
Application of other laws not  barred
62.  The  provisions  of this  Act shall  be  in addition  to, and  not  in derogation of, 
 the provisions of any other  law for the time being  in force.
Power to make rules
63.	(1)		The			 Central			 Government		 may,			 by		 notification,			 make			 rules			 to		 carry 
  out  the provisions of this Act;
 (2) In particular,  and  without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing  power, 
	 	 such	rules	may	provide	for	all	or	any	of	the	following	matters,	namely:-—
  
90[(a)  the term of the Selection Committee and  the manner of selection of  
	 	 	 	 panel		of	names	under	sub-section	(2)	of	Section	9;]
  (b)  the  form and  manner in which and  the  authority  before  whom  the 
	 	 	 	 oath		 of	office	and		of	secrecy	shall		be		made	and		subscribed	to	under 
	 	 	 	 sub-section	(3)	of	section	10;
  
91(c)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007.
  (d)  the  salary and  the other  terms  and  conditions of service 
    including travelling  expenses,  house  rent   allowance  and 
    conveyance  facilities, sumptuary   allowance   and  medical facilities    
    to   be   provided to the Chairperson and  other  Members under   
	 	 	 	 sub-section	(1)	of	section	14;
  
92[(da) the  number of Additional, Joint,  Deputy  or Assistant Directors 
	 	 	 	 General	 or	such		 officers	or	other		 employees	in	the		 office	of	Director 
    General and  the manner  in  which  such  Additional,  Joint,  Deputy 
	 	 	 	 or	 	 Assistant	 	Directors	 	General	 or	 such	 	officers	 or	 other	 employees 
	 	 	 	 may	be	appointed	under		sub-	section	(1A)	of	section	16;	]
  (e)  the  salary,  allowances and  other  terms  and  conditions of service 
    of the Director General, Additional,  Joint,  Deputy  or Assistant 
    Directors  General or 
93[such	 officers	 	 or	 	 other	 	 employees]	 under 
	 	 	 	 sub-section	(3)	of	section16;
	 	 (f)	 	 the	 qualifications	 for	 appointment	 of	 the	 Director	 General,	 Additional, 
    Joint, Deputy   or   Assistant  Directors    General  or   94[such 
	 	 	 	 officers		or		other	employees]	under	sub-section	(4)	of	section	16;
90			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 “	 the	manner	in	which	the	Chairperson	and	other	Members	shall	be	selected	under	section	9;” 
91			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(c)	of	sub-section(2)	of	section	63	read	as	under:-
	 “the	 financial	 and	 administrative	 powers	 which	 may	 be	 vested	 in	 the	 Member	Administration 
 under section 13;”
92			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
93			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“such	other	advisers,	consultants	or	officers”
94			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for	“such	other	advisers,	consultants	or	officers”
(54)
 (g)  the  salaries and  allowances and  other  terms  and  conditions of service  
   of  the   95	[Secretary]	and			officers			and			other			employees		payable,			
	 	 	 and		the	number	of	such		officers		and		employees	under		sub-section	(2)		
	 	 	 of		section17;
	 96 (h)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
 97(i)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
 98(j)		 [Omitted	by	Competition		(Amendment)	 Act,	2007]
 (k)  the  form  in  which  the  annual statement of  accounts shall  be  prepared  
	 	 	 under	sub-section	(1)	of	section	52;
 (/)  the  time within which and  the  form and  manner in which the 
   Commission may   furnish   returns, statements  and   such   particulars  
	 	 	 as	the		Central		Government	may	require	under		sub-section	(1)	of	section			
	 	 	 53;
 (m)   the  form in which  and  the  time  within which  the  annual report  shall  be  
	 	 	 prepared	under	sub-section	(2)	of	section	53;
 99[(ma)	the	form	in	which	an		appeal	may		be		filed	before		the		Appellate		Tribunal		
	 	 	 under		 sub-section	(2)	of	section	53B	and		the		fees		payable	in	respect	of 
   such  appeal;
 
95			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“Registrar”
96			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(h)	of	sub-section(2)	of	section	63	read	as	under:-
 “for securing any case or matter which requires to be decided by a Bench composed of more  
	 than	two	Members	under	sub-section	(4)	of	section	23;”
97			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(i)	of	sub-section(2)	of	section	63	read	as	under:-
 “any other matter in respect of which the Commission shall have power under clause (g) of  
	 sub-section	(2)	of	section	36;”
98			 Prior	to	omission,	clause	(j)	of	sub-section(2)	of	section	63	read	as	under:-
 “the promotion of competition advocacy, creating awareness and imparting training about  
	 competition	issues	under	sub-section	(3)	of	section49;”
99			 Ins.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007
(55)
  (me)  the  fee  which  shall be  accompanied with every  application made under 
	 	 	 	 sub-section	(2)	of	section		53N;
	 	 (mf)		 the		 other			matters	under			clause	(i)	of		sub-section(2)		of		section	53O 
    in respect of which the Appellate  Tribunal shall have  powers under  the  
	 	 	 	 Code	of	Civil	Procedure,	1908	(5	of	1908)	while	trying	a	suit;]
  
100[(n) the   manner  in   which   the   monies   transferred   to   the   Competition 
    Commission  of India or the  Appellate  Tribunal  shall  be  dealt  with by 
    the Commission or  the  Appellate Tribunal,  as the  case may  be,  under 
	 	 	 	 the	fourth	proviso	to	sub-section(2)	of	section	66	;]
  (o)  any  other  matter  which  is to be,  or may  be,  prescribed, or in 
    respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by rules.
	 (3)		 Every		 notification		 issued	under		 sub-section(3)	of	section	20		 and		 section	
54		and	every		rule	made	under		this	Act	by	the	Central		Government	shall	be	
laid,	as	soon		as	may		be		after		it	is		made,	before			 each		House	of		Parlia-
ment, while  it is  in session, for a total period  of thirty days which may be  
comprised in one  session, or in two or more  successive sessions, and  if, 
before  the  expiry of the  session immediately   following  the  session or  the  
successive	sessions		aforesaid,	both	Houses	agree		in		making			any		modifi-
cation			in		the		notification		or		rule,		or		both	Houses	agree	that		the		notification	 	
should		not		be		issued		or	rule		should		not		be	made,	the		notification		or	rule	 	
shall		thereafter	have		effect		only	in	such		modified	form		or		be			of		no		effect,	 	
as	the			case	may		be;			so,			however,		that			any			such	modification		or	annul-
ment shall  be  without  prejudice to the  validity of anything  previously  done  
under		that	notification	or	rule,	as	the	case	may	be.
Power to make regulations
64.	(1)		 The		Commission	may,		by	notification,		make		regulations	consistent	with	this		
  Act and  the rules made thereunder to carry out the purposes of this Act.
 (2)  In particular,  and  without prejudice to the  generality of the  foregoing  
  provisions, such regulations may provide for all or any of the following  
	 	 matters,	namely:—
  (a) the   cost   of   production  to   be   determined  under    clause  (b)   of 
    the Explanation to section 4;
	 	 (b)		 the			 form		 of		 notice			 as		 may			 be			 specified		 and			 the			 fee			 which 
	 	 	 	 maybe	determined	under		sub-section(2)	of	section	6;
	 	 (c)		 the			 form			 in			 which			 details				 of			 the			 acquisition			 shall			 be			 filed 
	 	 	 	 under		subsection(5)	of	Section	6;
 101[(d)	 		 the	procedures	to	be	followed		for	engaging	the	experts	and 	profession-	
	 	 	 	 als	under		sub-section(3)	of	section	17;
100			Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “  the manner in which the monies transferred to the Central Government shall be dealt with by  
	 that	Government	under	the	fourth	proviso	to	sub-section	(2)	of	section	66;”
101			Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 (d)				the	fee	which	may	be	determined	under	clause	(a)	of	sub-section	(1)	of	section	19;
 (e)    any other matter in respect of which provision is to be, or may be, made by regulations.”
(56)
	 	 (e)		 the	 fee	which	may	be	determined	under	clause	(a)	of	sub-section(1)	of 
	 	 	 	 section	19;
  (f)  the  rules  of  procedure  in  regard   to  the  transaction of  business at 
	 	 	 	 the	meetings	of	the	Commission	under		sub-section(1)	of	section	22;
  (g)  the  manner in which  penalty  shall  be  recovered under  
	 	 	 	 sub-section(1)	of	section	39;
  (h)  any  other  matter  in respect of which provision  is to be,  or may  be,   
    made by regulations.]
 (3)   Every  regulation made under  this Act shall  be  laid, as soon  as may  be  after 
it	is	made,	before	each	House	of	Parliament,	while	it	is	in	session,	for	a	total	
period of thirty days  which may be comprised in one  session or in two or 
more  successive sessions,  and   if, before   the  expiry  of  the  session  
immediately   following  the session or the  successive sessions aforesaid, 
both	 Houses	 agree	 in	 making	 	any	 modification	 	in	 the	 	regulation,	 or	 both	 	
Houses agree that  the  regulation should  not  be  made, the  regulation 
shall	 	thereafter	 have	 	effect	 	only	 in	 such	 	modified	 form	 	or	 	be	 	 	of	 	no 
effect,			as	the			case	may		be;			so,			however,		that			any			such	modification		or 
annulment shall  be  without  prejudice to the  validity of anything  previously  
done under  that regulation.
Power to remove difficulties
65.	(1)		 If	 	 any	 	 difficulty	 arises	 in	 giving	 effect	 	to	 the	 	 provisions	 of	 this	 	Act,	 the 
	 	 Central		 Government			may,			by			order			published		in		the			Official		Gazette, 
  make   such  provisions, not inconsistent with the  provisions of this Act as  
	 	 may		appear	to	it	to	be	necessary	for	removing		the	difficulty:	
  Provided that no such  order  shall be made under  this section after the expiry  
  of a period of two years from the commencement of this Act.
 (2)  Every  order  made under  this section shall be  laid, as soon  as may  be 
	 	 after	it	is	made,	before	each	House	of	Parliament.
Repeal And saving
66.[(1) 
102The	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	 Act,	 1969	 (54	 of 
	 	 1969)	 is	 	 hereby	 repealed	 and	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade 
	 	 Practices	 Commission	 established	 under	 sub-section	 (1)	 of	 section	 5	 of	 the 
  said Act (hereinafter referred to as the repealed Act) shall stand dissolved.
102		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
	 (1)	 “The	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	Practices	Act,	 1969	 is	 hereby	 repealed	 and	 the	 
	 	 Monopolies	 and	Restrictive				Trade		Practices	Commission	established	under	sub-section 
	 (1)		 of	section	5	of	the	said	 Act	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	repealed	Act)	(54	of	1969)	shall		
  stand dissolved.”
(57)
 (102 A)[***]
	 (1A)The	repeal	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	 Trade	Practices	Act,	1969	(54		
	 of	1969)	shall,	however,	not	affect,-
  a)  the previous operation of the Act so repealed or anything duly done or 
    Suffered thereunder; or
  b)  any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred  
    under the Act so repealed; or
	 	 c)		 any	 penalty,	 confiscation	 or	 punishment	 incurred	 in	 respect	 of	 any 
    contravention under the Act so repealed; or
  d)  any proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege,  
	 	 	 	 obligation,	 liability,	 penalty,	 confiscation	 or	 punishment	 as	 aforesaid,	 
    and any such proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or 
	 	 	 	 enforced,	 and	 any	 such	 penalty,	 confiscation	 or	 punishment	 may	 be 
    imposed or made as if that Act had not been repealed.]
	 2)	 On	 the	 dissolution	 of	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	
Commission, the person appointed as the Chairman of the Monopolies and 
Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Commission	and	every	other	person	appointed	as	
Member and Director General of Investigation and Registration, Additional, 
Joint, Deputy, or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration 
and	any	officer	and	other	employee	of	that	Commission	and	holding	office	as	
such	immediately	before	such	dissolution	shall	vacate	their	respective	offices	
and such Chairman and other Members shall be entitled to claim compensa -
tion not exceeding three months’ pay and allowances for the premature termi-
nation	of	term	of	their	office	or	of	any	contract	of	service.
Provided that the Director General of Investigation and Registration,  
Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and 
Registration	 or	 any	 officer	 or	 other	 employee	 who	 has	 been,	 immediately 
before	the	dissolution	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices
102 A		The	 proviso	 and	 the	 explanation	 omitted	 by	 Act	 39	 of	 2009,	 sec	 2(a)(w.e.f14-10-2009).The 
	 proviso	and	the	explanation,	before	ommission,	stood	as	under:
“Provided	that,	notwithstanding	anything	contained	in	this	sub-section,	the	Monopolies	and	Re-
strictive	Trade	Practices	Commission	established	under	sub	section(1)	of	section	5	of	the	re-
pealed Act, may continue to exercise jurisdiction and power under the repealed Act for a period 
of two years from the date of the commencement of this Act in respect of all cases or proceed -
ings	(including	complaints	received	by	it	or	references	or	applications	made	to	it)	filed	before	the	
commencement	of	this	Act	as	if	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Act,	1969	(54	
of	1969)	had	not	been	repealed	and	all	the	provisions	of	the	said	Act	so	repealed	shall	mutatis	
mutandis apply to such cases or proceedings or complaints or references or applications and 
to all other matters. 
Explanation:	For	the	removal	of	doubts,	it	is	hereby	declared	that	nothing	in	this	proviso	shall	
confer	any	jurisdiction	or	power	upon	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Commis
-
sion to decide or adjudicate any case or proceeding arising under the Monopolies and Restric -
tive	Trade	Practices	Act,	1969	(54	of	1969)	on	or	after	the	commencement	of	this	Act.”
(58)
103	 	Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
“Provided	further	that	the	Director	General	of	Investigation	and	Registration,	Additional,	Joint,	
Deputy	or	Assistant	Directors	General	of	Investigation	and	Registration	or	any	officer	or	other	
employee who has been, immediately before the dissolution of the Monopolies and   
Restrictive	Trade	Practices	 Commission,	 employed	 on	 regular	 basis	 by	 the	 Monopolies	 and 
Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	 Commission,	 shall	 become,	 on	 and	 from	 such	 dissolution,	 the	 
officer	 and	 employee,	 respectively,	 of	 the	 Central	 Government	 with	 the	 same	 rights	 and 
privileges as to pension, gratuity and other like matters as would have been admissible to him 
if	the	rights	in	relation	to	such	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Commission	had	not	
been transferred to, and vested in, the Central Government and shall continue to do so unless 
and until his employment in the Central Government is duly terminated or until his remunera
-
tion,	terms	and	conditions	of	employment	are	dulyaltered	by	that	Government:”
104	 	Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for	“the	Central	Government”
Commission appointed on deputation basis to the Monopolies and Restrictive 
Trade Practices	 Commission,	 shall,	 on	 such	 dissolution,	 stand	 reverted	 to	 his 
parent	cadre,	Ministry	or	Department,	as	the	case	may	be:
 103[Provided further	that	the	Director-General	of	Investigation	and	Registration,	
Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and 
Registration	or	any	officer	or	other	employee	who	has	been,	immediately	before	
the	 dissolution	 of	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	 Commission,	
employed	 on	 regular	 basis	 by	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	
Commission,	shall	become,	on	and	from	such	dissolution,	the	officer	and	employ-
ee, respectively, of the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, 
in	such	manner	as	may	be	specified	by	the	Central	Government,	with	the	same	
rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity and other like matters as would have 
been admissible to him if the rights in relation to such Monopolies and Restric-
tive	Trade	Practices	Commission	had	not	been	transferred	to,	and	vested	in,	the 
Competition Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may 
be, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Competi -
tion Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, is duly 
terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are duly 
altered by the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate
Tribunal, as the case may be.]
Provided also that notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes 
Act,	1947(14	of	1947),	or	in	any	other	law	for	the	time	being	in	force,	the	transfer	of	
the services of any Director General of Investigation and Registration, Additional, 
Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration or 
any	officer	or	other	employee,	employed	in	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	
Practices	Commission,	to	
104[the Competition Commission of India or the Appellate 
Tribunal], as the case may be, shall not entitle such Director General of Investiga-
tion and Registration, Additional, Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of 
Investigation	and		Registration	or	any	officer	or	other	employee	any	compensation	
under this Act or any other law for the time being in force and no such claim shall  
be	entertained	by	any	court,	tribunal	or	other	authority:	
Provided also	 that	where	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Com-
mission has established a provident fund, superannuation, welfare or other fund 
(59)
for	the	benefit	of	the	Director	General	of	Investigation	and	Registration,	Additional,	
Joint, Deputy or Assistant Directors General of Investigation and Registration or the 
officers	and	other	employees	employed	in	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	
Practices	Commission,	the	monies	relatable	to	the	officers	and	other	employees	
whose services have been transferred by or under this Act to 105[the Competition 
Commission of India or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall, out of the 
monies	standing]	on	the	dissolution	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Prac-
tices Commission to the credit of such provident fund, superannuation, welfare or 
other fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, 
106[the Competition Commission of 
India or the Appellate Tribunal as the case may be, and such monies which stand 
so transferred shall be dealt with by the said Commission or the Tribunal, as the 
case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed.]
107  (3)  All cases pertaining to monopolistic trade practices or restrictive trade
practices  pending (including such cases, in which any unfair trade 
practice has also been alleged), before the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade 
Practices	Commission	shall	,	(107	A) on the commencement of the competition 
Amendment	Act,.2009	stand	transferred	to	the	Appellate	Tribunal	and	shall	be 
adjudicated by the Appellate Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of the 
repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed.]
(107B) “Explanation- ‘For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that 
all	 cases	 	 referred	 to	 in	 this	 sub-section,	 sub-section(4)and	 sub-sec-
tion	 (5)shall	 be	 deemed	 to	 include	 all	 applications	 made	 for	 the	 losses	 or 
damages	under	section	12(B)of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Prac-
tices	Act,1969(54of1969)as	it	stood	before	its	repeal”;
(4)	 Subject	to	the	provisions	of	sub-section(3),	all	cases	pertaining	to	unfair	trade	
practices	other	than	those	referred	to	in	clause	(x)	of	sub-section(1)	of	section	
36A	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Act,	1969	(54	of	1969)	
and pending before 
105			 Subs.	 by	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Act,	 2007	 for	 “the	 Central	 Government	 shall,	 out	 of 
 the monies standing”
106			 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2007	for:
 “the Central Government and such monies which stand so transferred shall be dealt with by  
 the said Government in such manner as may be prescribed.”
107		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
“ All cases pertaining to monopolistic trade practices or restrictive trade practices pending  
before	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	 Commission	 on	 or	 before	 the 
commencement of this Act, including such cases, in which any unfair trade practice has also 
been alleged, shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the Competition Commis -
sion of India and shall be adjudicated by that Commission in accordance with the provisions 
of	the	repealed	Act	as	if	that	Act	had	not	been	repealed.”	Subs	by	Act	39of	2009,	sec	2(b)(i)	
w.e.f	14-10-2009)	for		“after	the	expiry	of	two	years	referred	to	in	the	proviso	to	subsection(1)”	
Explanation	added	by	Act	39of	2009,	sec	2(b)(ii)	w.e.f	14-10-2009)	
107	A	 Subs		by	Act	39	of	2009,	Section	2(b)(i)	w.e.f	14-10-2009,	for”	after	the	expiry	of	two	year	re	
 ferred to in the proviso to the Subsection (i)”
107	B	 Explanation	added	by	Act	39	of	2009,	Section	2(b)(ii)		w.e.f	14-10-2009.	
(60)
108			 Subs.	 by	Act	39	of	2009,	Section	2(c)(i)		 w.e.f	14-10-2009.for	“on	or	before	the	expiry	of	two 
 years referred to in the proviso to subsection (1)”
108	A	 Proviso	inserted	by	Act		39	of	2009,	Section	2(c)(ii)		w.e.f	14-10-2009.
109		 Subs.	by	Competition	(Amendment)	 Act,	2007	for:
	 “	 All	 cases	 pertaining	 to	 unfair	 trade	 practices	 referred	 to	 in	 clause	 (x)	 of	 sub-section	 (1)	 of 
	 section	 36A	 of	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	 Act,	 1969	 (54	 of	 1969)	 and	 
	 pending	 before	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Commission	on	or	before	the 
 commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the  
 Competition Commission of India, and the Competition Commission of India shall dispose of  
	 such	cases	as	if	they	were	cases	filed	under	that	 Act,.”
109	A	 Subs	 by	 Act	 39	 of	 2009,	 Section	 2(d)	 w.e.f	 14-10-2009	 for	 “after	 the	 expiry	 of	 two	 years 
 referred to in the proviso to subsection (1)”
the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices	Commission	108[“immediately 
before	the	commencement	of	the	Competition	(Amendment)	Act,	2009	shall,	
on such commencement”, shall, stand transferred to the National Commission 
constituted	 under	 the	 Consumer	 Protection	Act,	 1986	 (68	 of	 1986)	 and	 the	
National	Commission	shall	dispose	of	such	cases	as	if	they	were	cases	filed	
under	that	Act:	
Provided that the National Commission may, if it considers appropriate, trans-
fer	any	case	transferred	to	it	under	this	sub-section,	to	the	concerned	State	
Commission	 established	 under	 section	 9	 of	 the	 Consumer	 Protection	 Act,	
1986	(68	of	1986)	and	that	State	Commission	shall	dispose	of	such	case	as	if	
it	was	filed	under	that	Act.
(108	A) Provided further that all the cases relating to the unfair trade practices 
pending,	before	the	National	Commission	under	this	sub-section,	on	or	before	
the	date	on	which	the	competition	(Amendment)	Bill,	2009	receives	the	assent	
of	the	President,	shall,	on	and	from	that	date,	stand	transferred	to	the	Appel-
late Tribunal and be adjudicated by the Appellate Tribunal in accordance with 
the provisions of the repealed Act as if that Act had not been repealed.
	 (5)	 	(109) All cases pertaining to unfair trade practices referred to in clause (x) of  
subsection	(1)	of	section	36A	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Prac-
tices	 Act,	 1969	 and	 pending	 before	 the	 Monopolies	 and	 Restrictive	 Trade	
Practices	Commission	shall,	(109A) “on the commencement of the Competition 
(Amendment)	Act,	2009”	stand	transferred	to	the	Appellate	Tribunal	and	the	
Appellate	 Tribunal	 shall	 dispose	 of	 such	 cases	 as	 if	 they	 were	 cases	 filed	
under that Act.]
	 (6)   All investigations or proceedings, other than those relating to unfair trade
practices, pending before the Director General of Investigation and Registra -
tion on or before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commence -
ment, stand transferred to the Competition Commission of India, and the 
Competition Commission of India may conduct or order for conduct of such 
investigation	or	proceedings	in	the	manner	as	it	deems	fit.
	 (7)	 All	investigations	or	proceedings,	relating	to	unfair	trade	practices,	other	than	
	 	 those	 referred	to	in	clause	(x)	of	sub-section	(1)	of	section	36A	of	the	Monopolies	
(61)
and	 Restrictive	 Trade	 Practices	Act,	 1969(54	 of	 1969)	 and	 pending	 before	
the Director General of Investigation and Registration on or before the com-
mencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the 
National	 Commission	 constituted	 under	 the	 Consumer	 Protection	Act,	 1986	
(68	of	1986)	and	the	National	Commission	may	conduct	or	order	for	conduct	
of	such	investigation	or	proceedings	in	the	manner	as	it	deems	fit.
(109B)	“Provided that all investigations or proceedings, relating to unfair trade 
practices pending before the National Commission, on or before the date on 
which	 the	 Competition	 (Amendment)	 Bill,	 2009	 receives	 the	 assent	 of	 the	
President	 shall,	 on	 and	 from	 that	 date,	 stand	 transferred	 to	 the	 Appellate 
Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal may conduct or order for conduct of such 
investigation	or	proceedings	in	the	manner	as	it	deems	fit.”
	 (8)	 	All	investigations	or	proceedings	relating	to	unfair	trade	practices	referred	to
in	clause	(x)	of	subsection	(1)	of	section	36A	of	the	Monopolies	and	Restric-
tive	Trade	Practices	Act,	1969(54	of	1969),	and	pending	before	the	Director	
General of Investigation and Registration on or before the commencement of 
this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the Competition 
Commission of India and the Competition Commission of India may conduct 
or	order	for	conduct	of	such	investigation	in	the	manner	as	it	deems	fit.
	 (9)	 Save	 as	 otherwise	 provided	 under	 sub-sections	 (3)	 to	 (8),	 all	 cases	 or 
	 	 proceedings	 pending	before	the	Monopolies	and	Restrictive	Trade	Practices 
  Commission shall abate.
	 (10)The	 mention	 of	 the	 particular	 matters	 referred	 to	 in	 sub-sections	 (3)	 to	 (8) 
	 	 shall	 not	be	held	to	prejudice	or	affect	the	general	application	of	section	6	of 
	 	 the	 General	 Clauses	 Act,	 1897	 (10	 of	 1897)	 with	 regard	 to	 the	 effect	 of 
  repeal.
109	B	 Proviso	inserted	by	Act.		39	of	2009,	Section	2(e)		w.e.f	14-10-2009.